{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20\lang1044 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Tapirt}{\creatim\yr1996\mo2\dy26\hr17\min17}{\version1}{\edmins1}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49205}}
\paperw12242\paperh15842\margl1440\margr1440 \ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz425\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\sl240\slmult0 \f4\fs20\lang1044 {\b\f5 NEW WFRP RULES
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f5 Untrained Use of Specialist Weapons
\par }{\f5 Characters can use the weapon at half their usual WS (round down).
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f5 Dodge Blow
\par }{\f5 The character with this skill can dodge attacks at their full Initiative value. Characters without this skill dodge at half their Initiative value (round down). Each successive dodge in the same round incurs a cumulative -10% penalty.
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f5 Toughness vs Damage}{\f5 
\par Use half the T statistic (round up). Subtract armour before Toughness.
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f5 Revised Armour}{\f5 
\par }{\i\f5 Leather}{\f5  - no change
\par }{\i\f5 Chain mail}{\f5  - 2AP
\par }{\i\f5 Plate Mail}{\f5  - 4AP
\par }{\i\f5 Shield}{\f5  - 1AP (if not actively parrying), 4AP if parrying.
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f5 Parrying}{\f5 
\par Note that the parrying penalties in WFRP apply to the }{\i\f5 opponent}{\f5 .
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f5 Specialist Weapon - Parrying}{\f5 
\par This gives the character +10% to all parry attempts.
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f5 Specialist Weapon - 2 Weapon}{\f5 
\par Gives +1 Attack/Parry with a secondary weapon. The secondary weapon must be no larger than a shortsword in length. The wielder suffers penalties of -10%WS to the primary weapon attacks, 
and -20%WS to the secondary attack (halve these penalties if the character  has the Ambidextrous skill).
\par The extra attack/parry must be with the secondary weapon. Characters with the 'SW Parrying' skill can parry with the secondary weapon at no penalty (but still use the weapon penalty).
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f5 Unarmed Combat}{\f5 
\par }{\i\f5 Mode                                  Init      To Hit    Damage   Parry}{\f5 
\par Normal*\tab \tab         -            -          -3 nl          -
\par Gauntlet/Knuckle Dusters*     -            -          -2 nl          -
\par Spiked/Bladed Fist                -       -10%/ -      -1             -
\par Grapple*                             -10%     -10%      -3nl           -
\par 
\par * - Means the attack is affected by the unarmed vs armour rules
\par nl - means the damage is non lethal, and always Strike to Stun.Only 25% of nl damage is real.
\par The To Hit penalty before the slash for the Spiked/Bladed Fist refers to untrained usage.
\par }{\b\i\f5 
\par Unarmed Skills}{\f5 
\par }{\i\f5 SW - Fist}{\f5 
\par +1 Dam and +10%WS for all above categories.
\par 
\par }{\i\f5 Street Fighting}{\f5 
\par +1 Dam and +10%WS for all categories except Spiked/Bladed Fist
\par 
\par }{\i\f5 Wrestling}{\f5 
\par +10%WS to all except spiked/bladed fist, and may grapple with no WS penalty.
\par 
\par }{\b\f5 Missile Weapons
\par 
\par }{\i\f5 Weapon           Short    Long   Extreme   ES   Load/Fire}{\f5 
\par Sling                  24        36        150       -2         1rd
\par Staff Sling          24        36         200       -2     1rd/1rd
\par Dart                    4          8          20        -2         1rd
\par Throwing Knife   4          8          20        -2         1rd}{\b\f5 
\par }{\f5 
\par 
\par 
\par }}