{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f30\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Wide Latin;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext15 footer;}{\*\cs16 \additive\sbasedon10 page number;}}{\info{\title Atagro}
{\author Allan Hull}{\operator Grover Hull}{\creatim\yr1995\mo11\dy7\hr18\min15}{\revtim\yr1996\mo2\dy29\hr21\min29}{\version32}{\edmins990}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords86}{\nofchars493}{\vern49197}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt720\margb720 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain \s15\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0 \f4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs16 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs16 9}}}{\cs16 
\par }\pard \s15\ri360\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 
\par }{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \f4\fs20 {\b\f30\fs96 Atagro
\par }\tab {\fs40 The Beast God, Master of Rampaging Doom, Lord of Daemon Rage, Grand Patriarch of the Beast Masters
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\f30\fs22 Description:  }{\fs22 Atagro is a huge vicious creature clad in glistening black armor and crowned with a fierce, horned helm atop his blackened, skeletal head.  Atagro\rquote 
s eyes burn with a fiery luminance, and he wears a huge shroud-like cloak.  Tormented, vaguely human wretches struggle and writhe to peer out from under its folds.  Atagro\rquote s armor is decorated with all the symbols of chaos, as he was once th
eir most powerful champion.  His hands are filthy and rotted; capped with grim steel talons and dark metal studs.  Atagro\rquote 
s weapon, Kagorr, is a huge tooth edged sword with a second blade extending from the handle.  The mighty god wields the blade with whir
ling grace and deadly precision.  Kagorr is the most powerful weapon of chaos ever created and less powerful blades of similar appearance are often granted to Atagro\rquote s followers.  
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\f30\fs22 Worship:}{\b\fs22   }{\fs22 
Atagro is worshipped by mortals as well as the majority of the chaos beasts of the wastes.  Servants of Atagro are among those who cherish freedom and the wild spirit to do and go as they please.  The savagery of the beast is his highest virtue and the lu
st for frenzied battle is his only vice.  Atagro\rquote s mortal servants disdain their humanoid likenesses and seek rewards for their services which will allow them to alter their shapes into that of beasts.  The most powerful of the god\rquote 
s worshippers can morph into any number of strange and fantastic creatures; and even the lowliest of his children will have some sort of bestial power.  
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\f30\fs22 Magic: }{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 Atagro\rquote s champions may only use the magic that is afforded them from magical items or innate abilities.  Magic spells are too distant and civilized for the god\rquote s liking, and so t
heir use is forbidden.  
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\f30\fs22 Friends & Enemies:}{\b\fs22   }{\fs22 Followers of Atagro are subject to }{\i\fs22 hatred}{\fs22  for any and all champions of Tristaris, the goddess of misery.  Tristaris\rquote 
s hopeless gospel and emotional bondage which she subjects her victims to goes completely against the wild, frantic, and physical nature of the Lord of Beasts.  Atagro remains neutral to all the other gods of chaos.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\f30\fs22 Strictures:}{\b\fs22   }{\fs22 Champions of Atagro must destroy followers of Tristaris wherever they may be found.  His followers must also destroy
 wizards and all those that seek to psychologically influence those around them.  His worshippers may not use magic and are forbidden to kill one another; though when two or more of them meet they may battle to see who has the right to take charge and com
mand the rest.  Followers of Atagro are also forbidden to stay in one place for more than three days and are encouraged to consume raw flesh of their enemies daily.
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f30\fs28 
\par 
\par Beast Master
\par }{\i\fs28 Disciple of Atagro
\par }{\b\fs24 M  +5, WS  +30%, BS  +10%, S  +3, T  +3, W  +9, I  +40%, A  +4, Dex  +40, Ld  +20
\par Int  +20, Cl  +40, Wp  +40, Fel  +10}{\fs22 
\par }{\b\f30\fs28 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f30\fs28 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f30\fs28 Atagro
\par }{\b\fs28 The God Himself
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab Hajerio
r Kull was born to a poor family in some obscure village of the Empire.  His parents treated him badly and he soon began to harbor a great hatred of the world and all that a normal child should grow to love.  Kull, as he was called, grew to be a huge, int
imidating man with an explosive temper and evil demeanor.  After a time his physical and mental prowess and innate apathy even to the horrors of chaos attracted the
 attention of a powerful steward of the chaos god Shagraunt.  This demonic being captured the evil man and began teaching him the secrets and ways of chaos.  All that Kull wished was to be left alone; and soon his hatred for his master was growing in prop
ortion to his power.  Kull slew the demon one night; proving to be unaffected by its fearsome presence and powers.  This in turn attracted the attention of Shagraunt himself; who began granting him powers almost at random as Kull wandered the world doing 
as he wished.  After a time Kull came to recognize Shagraunt as his master; and upon this realization he began working to further the cause of chaos with such dedication and skill that many of the other chaos powers noticed the champion\rquote 
s calling.  After being given the demonic name of \ldblquote Atagro\rdblquote 
 Kull began gathering his own troop of loyal followers.  These champions of various other chaos gods called him their master and together the band spread destruction and terror.  Atagro\rquote s name and deeds came to be feare
d throughout the Empire.  When he definitively proved his power and fearlessness by defeating the legendary sandworm that plagued the deserts of Araby, the dark forces of chaos behind him saw their chance and began draining power from many of their other 
worshippers so as to transform it into gifts that might be given to Atagro; should he continue to prove worthy.  Though still a champion, Atagro\rquote 
s powers soon outmatched those of all of his followers even though by now they were all daemons.  They continued
 to serve him loyally and worship their chosen gods.  Among them was Nadine, a demon princess of Blazzach; Adaire, an elven daemoness of Shagraunt; Jenna, an elven demon princess of Tzeentch; Diva, a lusty demon princess of Slaanesh; Jundros, a hulking pr
ince of Javate; Ayton, a demon prince of Ziradd; and Hrinn, a powerful demon prince of Thain.  All of Atagro\rquote 
s followers were eventually slain by the daughter of the Prophecy of Light, Ehvine; though the would-be god himself was able to survive the cunning 
traps laid for him by Ehvine and her Starchild allies.  Eventually Atagro had reached nearly ultimate power and stood ready to destroy the entire world; but was confronted by Ehvine in what became a truly epic battle atop Mt. Ghardoasa at the center of  t
he northern chaos wastes.  Eventually Ehvine was slain by the raging Atagro but she did manage to abate him long enough for a powerful spell to take effect.  No less than 1000 priestesses of the lawful God of Light had stood watching the battle from the b
ase of the hill.  Together they weaved a spell so powerful that even Atagro\rquote 
s enormous resistance to magic had not been enough to counter it.  The spell caused searing white bolts of energy to seize the bellowing demon and hurtle him through the gate into t
he chaos wastes.  The spell of the Prophecy thus saved the world from wrath of the man-god Atagro but it could not save their champion; the mighty daughter of Allumas, Ehvine.  Nevertheless Ehvine was granted godhood by the gods of law for her monumental 
ef
forts against the chaos threat and for her hand in defeating the most powerful champion of the dark gods that had ever lived.  Atagro was also far too powerful to be destroyed upon being banished to the wastes, however, and so established himself as the f
ifteenth chaos god...the Chaos God of Beasts.  Atagro\rquote 
s form can still take shape on the world as the binding forces of the warp gates fluctuate and sometimes weaken.  When he does take shape he fights with all of the gifts and powers that were granted him during his life.  
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 M  20, WS  99%, BS  99%, S  30, T  30, W  1000, I  100%, A  20, Dex  99, Ld  99, Int  99
\par Cl  99, Wp  99, Fel  0
\par }{\fs22 \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 His powers represent the ultimate unity of chaos, and they draw on the strength of all of the dark gods from whom they originated.  Atagro\rquote s powers fall into several categories.  Firstly there are the defensive powers:
\par }{\fs22 \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Bracer of Atagro:  }{\fs22 renders wearer immune to chaos weapons.  Can completely heal its
\par wearer of all afflictions and injuries up to six times per day.  Can cau
se wearer to manifest 10 attributes of his choice; this choice may be changed daily.  Allows wearer to triple in size once per day for up to one hour.  This entails a bonus of S x2, T x2, M x3, W x2.  Ignore normal maximums when using this ability.  The b
racelet was given Atagro after he defeated the great sandworm of the Arabian desert.  
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Armor of Atagro:  }{\fs22 this intimidating suit of black mail grants the wearer 13 AP on all locations which even count against magical attacks (i.e. lightning bolt).  Also grants immunity to acid, poison, fire, ice, lightning, gases, and 
}{\i\fs22 all }{\fs22 missile attacks.  AP are doubled against good or lawfully aligned creatures.  The armor was granted Atagro after he defeated Gog and Magog, Thain\rquote s twin guardians.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Skin of Atagro:  }{\fs22 reflects}{\i\fs22  }{\fs22 
one attack per round back on the attacker.  Can only be pierced by a magical weapon of at least five enchantments.  Renders wearer immune to all attacks which drain anything other than wounds (like Int, Wp, etc.) and immune to attacks which cause ins
tant death (like major death rune).  This gift was given to Atagro after he defeated Krohxus, guardian of the Keys of Chaos.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Helm of Atagro:  }{\fs22 reflects all magic.  allows the wearer to see invisible creatures and through any type of disguise, obstacle, or illusion.  At the tomb of Zahkash, the first chaos champion, Atagro had to destroy the warrior\rquote 
s spirit before he could claim the helm.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Mask of Atagro:  }{\fs22 granted to Atagro by Xouahva, after having to penetrate a maze of illusions; the black mask allows
 its wearer to transform into any creature it has ever seen with the time it takes to make a single attack.  The new shape assumed grants the wearer all of its innate powers.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Mark of Atagro:  }{\fs22 
no creature of chaos can harm the owner of the mark.  It also allows the owner to command all of the creatures of chaos within 1000 miles by telepathy.  The mark was the final gift to Atagro and was given to him only after an elaborate test, orchestrated 
by Shagraunt, to determine whether or not Atagro could bear the strain of containing such power.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Atagro\rquote 
s true strength and powers rested not in his defensive abilities, but in his destructive prowess and ability to annihilate his foes.  The following powers are more offensive in nature; and the man-god enjoys the use of every one of them.
\par }{\fs22 \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Roar of Atagro:  }{\fs22 the roar may be used once per round, as an attack.  All who hear it (roughly 10 mile radius) immediately lose 3d10 wounds regardless of toughness and armor!  The roar was given to Atagro only after he fearless
ly confronted the dark god of destruction himself!
\par }\pard {\fs22 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab }{\b\fs22 Hands of Atagro:  }{\fs22 the grey skinned, onyx clawed hands of Atagro glisten with oily chaos energy.  They make him perfectly ambidextrous and allow him to grapple a foe with only one hand.  Foes suffer a 
\par }\pard {\fs22 -30 on their Dex test to avoid this; those caught suffer normal damage multiplied by d8.  His fists will destroy any armor of less than five enchantments and he can combine his fingers into double barrels which can fire the projectiles of }{
\i\fs22 any }{\fs22 technology weapon.  He can catch weapons with a successful disarm roll and any weapon caught is automatically destroyed; he may attempt this once per round.  Atagro w
on the hands only after a grueling sparring match with Javate himself. 
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Fangs of Atagro:  }{\fs22 these fangs may bite anyone who has been successfully grappled.  Biting inflicts double damage and instantly changes the victim\rquote 
s alignment to chaos.  Atagro had to battle his way through a living nightmare that threatened to rob him of all sanity to acquire this reward.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Breath of Atagro:  }{\fs22 breath appears to be a 1000\rquote  diameter screaming cloud of multi-colored chaos energy.  Anyone within this range is permanently struck with d6 chaos attributes of Atagro\rquote 
s choice!  Atagro had to defeat the powerful demon prince of Vymm, Hakrii, to get this ability.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Hooves of Atagro:  }{\fs22 allows him to stomp once per round, as an attack.  The stomp sends ripples of lightning along the ground which knock everything prone within 1000\rquote 
, plus inflict 6d6+6 damage.  The hooves also allow Atagro to move with a rate of 20.  Atagro had to defeat an enormous mutated dragon called Norn, to gain this ability.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Eyes of Atagro:  }{\fs22 the eyes are grotesque and slitted l
engthwise by narrow black pupils.  Anyone who sees his eyes; whether or not Atagro is looking at the person, must roll three consecutive toughness tests -60 or begin to rot.  While rotting the victim loses d20 wounds per round.  Those who resist the eyes 
are safe from their effects forever, but lose d3 skills and gain d3 insanities.  The eyes were given to Atagro after he literally battled Ziradd and managed to subdue her.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Horns of Atagro:  }{\fs22 gives a S50 bonus when attacking structures and buildings.  Agai
nst living targets Atagro suffers a -50% to hit but the horns will slay any living target they hit.  The horns were given to Atagro after he proved his worth to Khorne by butchering six of Khorne\rquote s mardaags in a single round.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Gaze of Atagro:  }{\fs22 the man-god\rquote 
s eyes glow purple and searing beams of chaos energy stream from them striking whatever Atagro trains his gaze upon.  The gaze takes an entire round for the god to use but he can look at d100 different targets during that round and may even look at the s
ame target twice.  The beams of energy from his eyes rip right through his foes and kill most everything.  The gaze causes d100 wounds to each victim and rips right through all armor, destroying it utterly.  The gaze was given to Atagro after he destroyed
 an entire temple of Sigmar and every living being within.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Cape of Atagro:  }{\fs22 each time the wearer attacks he may add the power of a different chaos attribute.  The cape also completely nullifies the effects of }{\i\fs22 any }{\fs22 attack that comes from the rear.  The cap
e may be pulled around its wearer to protect him from any form of attack for up to six rounds; and the wearer may do nothing other than hold the cape up during this time, though abilities such as regeneration or telekinesis will still function normally.  
It takes one attack to cover up with the cape and one attack to release it.  The cape was won after Atagro pounded the goddess Xouahva into submission and bedded her.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Will of Atagro:  }{\fs22 Atagro can summon any living being right into his hand.  This ability 
works on any target within sight and costs one attack.  The target chosen cannot resist and will fly through the air right into his hand automatically.  The victim may try to escape with a Dex test -60; otherwise they are prone and helpless the following 
round.  Success means they take normal damage from Atagro\rquote 
s claws.  For one round per day Atagro may also use this ability to attack anyone within sight with his normal attacks as though the target were standing right in front of him.  This ability was give
n to Atagro after he slew the Grand Theogonist and threw his head into the chaos warp.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Head of Atagro:  }{\fs22 
anyone seeing the decayed, grinning skull of Atagro is overcome with terror and will flee if they fail a cool test -30.  From his lipless, fanged jaws Atagro may spew living, elongated tongues at his foes.  This costs one attack and the tongues will wrap 
up d12 foes standing within 100\rquote .  Roll against Atagro\rquote s BS, success means the foes are prone and held as though by }{\i\fs22 ensnaring tongues }{\fs22 of Slaanesh.  Also the tongues radiate a }{\i\fs22 musk }{\fs22 
like effect at radius of 100\rquote 
, although the Wp test made to resist the smell is made at -30.  The tongues will hold on forever; or until Atagro releases or kills the victim; though they can also be cut off by a third party.  To receive this reward from th
e god Slaanesh, Atagro had to fight and kill the infamous Jinnara, Mistress of Lust, and the most powerful and sensuous living demon princess of Slaanesh.
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Kagorr:  }{\fs22 this deadly weapon appears to be almost like two swords connected at the ends of their handles.  Kagorr was granted Atagro only after he defeated a powerful demon prince of Khorne named Stygion, as well as Stygion\rquote 
s entire entourage.  Stygion was a powerful hopeful of the Blood God and one who Khorne thought would
 prove to outdo Atagro.  When proved wrong Khorne gave him the most powerful chaos weapon that has ever existed.  Kagorr has many abilities that would grant its owner enough power to destroy any adversary.  The weapon\rquote 
s two blades have different properties.
  One of the blades is lined with hideous teeth which cause it to inflict 10d6 rather than d6 damage.  The other end adds +30 damage due to hissing flames which shriek and shimmer in the blade; though the damage of that end is only d6.  The weapon can par
ry 5 attacks and manifests 10 chaos properties, which the owner is permitted to select every sunrise.  It holds the power of a greater death rune and if the owner spends all of his attacks for the round he may inflict maximum damage with the blade; combin
ing its teeth and fire bonuses as well as all of the chaos properties.  This attack cannot be dodged and even magical parrying abilities will only reduce the damage by half.  Kagorr\rquote 
s last ability is that it can morph into any weapon that the owner has ever seen and even mimic that weapon\rquote s abilities.  This morphing takes one attack to 
perform.  Kagorr cannot be destroyed except by Khorne himself, personally, as it is he who fashioned the blade.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\fs24 
\par }{\b\f30\fs24 Rewards of Atagro}{\f30\fs22 
\par }\pard {\fs22 Killing demons of Tristaris\tab \tab 1\tab Killing mages\tab \tab \tab \tab 1/2
\par Killing champions of Tristaris\tab \tab 1\tab Killing hypnotists/mind meddlers\tab \tab 1/2
\par Killing Greater Demons of Tristaris\tab 2\tab Consuming an enemy\rquote s flesh\tab \tab 1/2
\par Killing Demon Princes of Tristaris\tab 3\tab Taming wild beasts\tab \tab \tab 1
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f30\fs24   
\par Symbol & Number
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 \tab }{\fs22 Atagro\rquote 
s number is six; after his most favored traits of the beast:  fangs, claws, hooves, wings, horns, and talons.  His symbol is a laughing skull with huge curved horns.  The skull represents the head of Atagro himself; and the horns are those that ado
rn his great helm.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f30\fs24 The Mark of Atagro
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab }{\fs22 The mark of Atagro is a }{\i\fs22 zoological mutation}{\fs22  like the attribute, plus one }{\i\fs22 invent your own }{\fs22 attribute as well as an increase of +3 wounds.
\par }{\fs24 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f30\fs24 The Magic of Atagro
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab }{\b\fs22 Armor:  }{\fs22 The chaos armor of Atagro is invariably black and reflective, but is also rather bestial in appearance.  The armor of Atagro is always fused to the champion but can be made to seemingly vanish into the champion
\rquote s body at will.  The armor costs one attack for the mutant to summon it back into place.  
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Special Runes (d4):
\par \tab 1-  Burrowing:  }{\fs22 this rune allows the champion to dig through earth or vegetation at his normal movement rate and to dig through stone at 1/2 his normal move rate.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 2-  Flying:  }{\fs22 this rune allows the champion to fly as a }{\i\fs22 swooper }{\fs22 at his normal move rate.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 3-  Swimming:  }{\fs22 this rune allows the champion to breathe water and swim at his normal movement rate; even against a current.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 4-  Climbing:  }{\fs22 the mutant can climb up sheer surfaces as quickly as if he were running along solid ground.  Even slick surfaces may be climbed in the normal way.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Shields:  }{\fs22 Atagro\rquote 
s shields have the ability to blast translucent spirits with the same statistics as Dragons once per day.  These dragons have all of the special abilities of normal dragons, and are also immune to normal weapons and all forms of casting magic.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Items:  }{\fs22 Atagro\rquote s champions are on occasion granted a double bladed sword similar to the god\rquote 
s awesome weapon, Kagorr.  The Beast-blade, as it is called, gains +10 damage and parries one attack.  It may be thrown as normal and if received more than once the weapon gains a chaos weapon property of the champion\rquote s choice. 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\fs22 
\par }\pard \qc {\fs22 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f30\fs52 Demons of Atagro
\par 
\par }{\b\f30\fs28 Storm Lasher
\par }{\fs28 Serpent-Giants\tab Twisting Punishers
\par Lashing Gargantuans
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab 
These disgusting creatures appear as bloated gray skinned giants with long flailing tentacles for heads.  The creatures have thick, two fingered hands with each finger ending in huge dark tentacles.  Their short opposable thumbs are their only true finge
rs.  The storm lashers are so named due to their affinity for lightning.  Lashers whip their enemies with tentacles and make a sound like thunder when they run.  Their hideous appearance causes }{\i\fs22 fear }{\fs22 in all creatures that 
view them.  The tentacles they attack with act as whips (ES 8) and simultaneously shoot lightning bolts into their targets with each hit.  The lashers have no minds really and so are incapable of doing anything other than attacking whoever has offended th
eir god.  They are immune to all psychological effects and have 3 AP on all locations.  They have d6 attributes.
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 M  8, WS  80%, BS  80%, S  8, T  8, W  88, I  99%, A  3, Dex  89, Ld  89
\par Ld  89, Int  89, Cl  89, Wp  89, Fel  0
\par }{\b\f30\fs28 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f30\fs28 Gull Grinder
\par }{\fs28 Raging Slug Men\tab   Screaming Beasts of Frenzy
\par Atagro\rquote s Habitations
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab These creatures are among the more deadly of Atagro\rquote 
s demons.  They appear as huge brown skinned strongmen with slug bodies for legs.  Their enormous muscled arms end in the heads of lions and their own flat, bald heads are featureless save for beady bla
ck eyes and huge mottled beaks.  The Gull Grinders atta
ck by biting or spewing fireballs with their lion heads.  Each bite inflicts one zoological mutation on the victim unless a successful magic test is rolled.  Each head can spew 6 fireballs per round; and all 6 may be shot at once if the demon desires; alt
hough this prevents the lion heads from taking any other action until the next round.  Grinders may have d6 attributes and have 3 AP on all locations.  They are known for their incredible endurance and immunity to all types of psychological effects.  Grin
ders can screech once per day which causes a shock wave to travel up to 1000\rquote 
 away from the creature in every direction.  Anyone caught within this radius suffers one S10 hit, regardless of armor (obviously).  Victims caught within the radius also are affected as though a corrode spell had been cast on them.  
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 M  9, WS  66%, S  6, T  6, W  99, I  99%, A  9, Dex  99, Ld  39, Int  39, Cl  39, Wp  99 
\par Fel  0
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f30\fs28 Corpse Render
\par }{\fs28 Butchers of Atagro\tab \tab Beast-Lords
\par The Dark Titans
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab The horrifying Corpse Renders are absolutely Atagro\rquote s most powerful greater demons.  They look like massive 20\rquote  humanoids with black skin and the heads of rhinos.  The Corpse Renders\rquote 
 arms end in spherical masses of dark, twisted blades which spin and rotate at the will of the demons.  The Render\rquote 
s awesome muscular legs end in flattened black hooves which they may scrape across the ground as they snort in anticipation of a coming fray.  This action takes a full round but causes the demon\rquote 
s next blow that connects to cause damage as if the creature\rquote s strength were doubled!  Corpse Renders\rquote 
 bodies reflect all magic and their eyes can see through any solid or other obstacle, whether magical or not.  The blades of the Renders will mutilate their foes for an extra d20 damage if the demon rolls a 1 on d
4 when hitting an opponent.  The blades cannot be parried and will break }{\i\fs22 any}{\fs22 
 weapon that attempts to parry them on a roll of 1-3 on d6.  The Renders can dodge two attacks per round and spend any two attacks to ram an opponent instead of attacking with the blades.  If a foe is successfully hit by the creature\rquote 
s ramming attack roll damage on 3d6 instead of just d6.  Persons hit by the demon\rquote s horn also are flung up into the air behind the creature and take damage as though they fell 6d6 yards.  Once per day t
he Renders can choose to charge forward on all fours (as an attack).  This attack takes the demon 3d100 yards before it can stop and turn around (at move 20).  Any foe hit by the demon\rquote 
s charge takes 100 wounds of damage regardless of armor.  Any foe rolling a successful test against 1/2 of his initiative score can completely dodge the blow.  Renders have 6 AP on all locations and always have 6 attributes.  
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 M  12, WS  89%, BS  0, S  13, T  13, W  66, I  100%, A  10, Dex  89, Ld  89, Int  89, Cl  89 Wp  89, Fel  0
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f30\fs52 Rewards of Atagro
\par }{\b\f30\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 0-4\tab Head of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion\rquote s head changes into that of Atagro himself.  His skin withers \tab \tab \tab \tab away leaving only a grim skull with long fangs.  The champion causes }{\i\fs22 fear}{\fs22  in all \tab 
\tab \tab \tab those who behold him.   
\par }{\b\fs22 
\par 5-8\tab Fangs of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion may perform a }{\i\fs22 double }{\fs22 damage bite attack on any creature \tab \tab \tab \tab that he has successfully grappled.  Also anyone bitten must roll a magic test or \tab \tab \tab \tab 
their alignment instantly shifts to chaos.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 9-12\tab Eyes of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion\rquote s eyes become hideous and bloodshot, with narrow slits \tab \tab \tab \tab rather than pupils.   Whoever the champion gazes at must roll three toughness \tab \tab \tab \tab 
tests.  Failure results in the victim sustaining d6 wounds for each test that was \tab \tab \tab \tab failed.  The damage is not negated for toughness }{\i\fs22 or }{\fs22 armor.  This ability may be \tab \tab \tab \tab 
used once per round and costs the champion one attack.  
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 13-16\tab Gaze of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion\rquote s eyes glow with a purple luminance and six times per day
\par \tab \tab can blast streams of purple energy at his foes.  This energy cuts through flesh and \tab \tab \tab \tab armor like butter.  The champion may look at one foe for every 2 points of Dex \tab \tab \tab \tab that}{\b\fs22  }{\fs22 
he has.  Any foe looked at suffers an immediate S8 hit which goes right 
\par \tab \tab through armor and only 1/2 of his toughness score counts against the damage.  
\par \tab \tab The champion may only dodge or parry for the remainder of the round if he uses
\par \tab \tab this ability.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 17-20\tab Claws of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion\rquote s finger tips grow long vicious claws.  Each hand may \tab \tab \tab \tab inflict normal damage xd8 once per day (once per hand).  Armor does not negate \tab \tab \tab \tab 
the damage.  After the claws are used to attack they retract and will not extend \tab \tab \tab \tab until the next sunrise.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 21-24\tab Hands of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion\rquote s hands rot and become immensely strong.  Any grappling \tab \tab \tab \tab attack causes the foe to roll the Dex test with a -20% penalty.   Damage for \tab \tab \tab \tab 
wrestling holds is calculated using d12 instead of d6 (a roll of 6 }{\i\fs22 or }{\fs22 a roll of 12 \tab \tab \tab \tab indicates a chance for additional damage).  Champion also gains the }{\i\fs22 wrestling \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\fs22 
skill if he does not already have it.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 25-28\tab Armor of Atagro:  }{\fs22 this ominous suit of black mail adds +3 AP to all locations of the \tab \tab \tab \tab champion excluding the head.  The armor counts even against attacks which
\par \tab \tab normally pierce right through armor (like }{\i\fs22 gaze of Atagro }{\fs22 or }{\i\fs22 fireball}{\fs22 , etc.).  \tab \tab \tab \tab Chaos runes or rewards applying to armor are applied to the }{\i\fs22 armor of Atagro}{\fs22 
\par \tab \tab from here on.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 29-32\tab Skin of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion\rquote s skin flushes a dark blue color and gains the ability to reflect \tab \tab \tab \tab one attack per foe back on the attacker.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 33-36\tab Hooves of Atagro:  }{\fs22 six times per day the champion can stomp on the ground causing all
\par \tab \tab within 100\rquote  to roll a Dex test or fall and remain prone for the remainder of the \tab \tab \tab \tab round.  Stomping in this way costs the champion one attack.
\par }{\b\fs22 37-40\tab Blade of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion receives one of the awesome Beast-blades of Atagro.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 41-44\tab Shift of the Beast:  }{\fs22 champion can morph his body into that of any creature found in the
\par \tab \tab WFRP bestiary.  This form allows the champion to use all of the special abilities 
\par \tab \tab of the creature imitated but the champion retains his own wounds total, Dex, Ld, \tab \tab \tab \tab Wp, Cl, and Int.  Champion may not cast spells unless he has morphed into something that \tab \tab normally can cast spells.  The champion
\rquote s assumed form lasts for d6 turns automatically; \tab \tab \tab and the champion is unable to return to normal any sooner.  The champion may assume a \tab \tab \tab new form at will and can even shift between attacks or right 
after he has already shifted.  \tab \tab \tab After shifting six times the champion must wait until the next sunrise before he shifts \tab \tab \tab again.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 45-48\tab Speed:  }{\fs22 champion\rquote s rate of movement doubles permanently.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 49-52\tab Reflexes of the Beast:  }{\fs22 champion is able to dodge any foe\rquote s attack if he can roll less \tab \tab \tab \tab than the number the foe rolled to hit him on d100.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 53-56\tab Horns of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion gains an extra }{\i\fs22 gore }{\fs22 attack which strikes at -30% to hit but 
\par \tab \tab any foe hit suffers 6d6 damage plus the mutant\rquote s strength.  If the horns are used
\par \tab \tab against structures the damage is calculated as though the mutant had a strength of
\par \tab \tab 20.
\par }{\b\fs22 
\par 57-60\tab Helm of Atagro:  }{\fs22 the helm reflects all magic cast at its wearer and allows its wearer to 
\par \tab \tab see through illusions and cast the }{\i\fs22 dispel magic }{\fs22 spell once per day.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 61-64\tab Sign of Atagro:  }{\fs22 the mark of the Beast Lord allows the champion to summon d6 chaos 
\par \tab \tab beasts once per day.  These creatures obey the champion\rquote s every command
\par \tab \tab for six hours; after which time they vanish.  Roll a d6 to determine the type of 
\par \tab \tab creature summoned.  }{\b\fs22 1- Centaur, 2-Minotaur, 3- Dragon Ogre, 4-Chimera,
\par \tab \tab 5- Manticore, 6- Baalrukh.
\par 
\par 65-68\tab Death Grasp:  }{\fs22 any victim which the champion successfully grapples for two rounds must 
\par \tab \tab roll a successful test against 1/2 toughness or suddenly die.  This attack does not 
\par \tab \tab work on creatures significantly larger than the champion.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 69-72\tab Voice of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion\rquote s voice becomes a low, rasping sound reminiscent of 
\par \tab \tab distant howling creatures of the wild.  All who hear the champion must roll a 
\par \tab \tab Wp test -20 or lose 8d8 points of cool for the remainder of the day.  Those whose
\par \tab \tab cool is reduced to zero begin imitating wild animals and become prone if attacked.  \tab \tab \tab If the Wp test is successful the champion will never be able to unnerve that 
\par \tab \tab particular victim with his voice.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 73-76\tab Will of Atagro:  }{\fs22 this ability allows the champion to completely ignore the results of any
\par \tab \tab critical hit on his person.  The champion can fight perfectly even at +6 critical and
\par \tab \tab will only die if reduced to -7 wounds or lower.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 77-80\tab Head of a Corpse Render:  }{\fs22 the champion gains the head of one of Atagro\rquote s beaked \tab \tab \tab \tab demons.  Champion causes }{\i\fs22 fear }{\fs22 in all creatures under ten feet tall and can \tab \tab \tab \tab 
ram in the same way as the aforementioned demon.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 81-84\tab Rage of Atagro:  }{\fs22 champion receives a sudden burst of battle fury whenever he is }{\i\fs22 heavy \tab \tab \tab \tab wounded}{\fs22 .  All the champion\rquote s attacks will automatically hit and cannot be dodged \tab \tab \tab 
\tab so long as he remains }{\i\fs22 heavy wounded.
\par }{\b\fs22 
\par 85-88\tab Bestial Frenzy:  }{\fs22 champion of Atagro gains the ability to clone himself during one combat \tab \tab \tab \tab round per day.  This can only be done during combat and the clone created will 
\par \tab \tab attack the champion\rquote s enemies in whatever way the champion chooses.  If no 
\par \tab \tab combat is currently under way the clone will instantly vanish and the champion 
\par \tab \tab will be unable to use this power again until the next sunrise.  The clone and the 
\par \tab \tab original must also remain within ten yards of each other or the clone will vanish.
\par \tab \tab The clone can be killed as normal; but is immune to all psychological effects.
\par \tab \tab }{\i\fs22 Bestial}{\fs22  }{\i\fs22 Frenzy }{\fs22 may be used at any time; though the clone always shows up \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\i\fs22 between }{\fs22 rounds and not in the middle of one.  
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 89-90\tab Animalistic Empathy:  }{\fs22 champion gains the ability to sense danger and basic emotions \tab \tab \tab \tab such as anger, fear, or lust in a 1000\rquote  radius.  This ability functions all of the time
\par \tab \tab and if used on a group it will show the champion the most dominant emotion
\par \tab \tab present.  Champions with this ability are never surprised.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 91-92\tab Crossbreed:  }{\fs22 champion becomes a creature that is combined with the body and powers
\par \tab \tab of any creature in the bestiary of the WFRP book.  Average all of the champion\rquote s
\par \tab \tab stats; then give the champion all of the creature\rquote s special abilities.  All \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab psychological have a minimum of 20 after the conversion.  The creature the 
\par \tab \tab champion combines with may be chosen by the player.  
\par }{\b\fs22 
\par 93-94  Growth:  }{\fs22 champion grows to one-and-a-half times his original size.  Add +50% to \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab wounds, +1 toughness, and +1 strength.  The mutant also inspires }{\i\fs22 fear }{\fs22 in 
\par \tab \tab creatures under ten feet tall if he is less than that height.  This reward may
\par \tab \tab be rolled more than once.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 95-96\tab Mark of Atagro:  }{\fs22 a symbol of the god appears on the champion\rquote s flesh wherever the 
\par \tab \tab champion wishes.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 97-98\tab Daemonic Name:  }{\fs22 champion gets a new name chosen by Atagro to commemorate his
\par \tab \tab deeds.  Increase the name by one syllable each additional time this reward is \tab \tab \tab \tab rolled.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs22 99-00\tab Chaos Attribute:  }{\fs22 champion is judged unworthy of a true reward and so receives an
\par \tab \tab attribute instead.   
\par }{\b\fs22    }{\fs22  
\par  }{\b\fs22 \tab 
\par }{\b\fs40 \ldblquote The Beast within shall destroy the world without...\rdblquote 
\par 
\par \tab \tab \tab }{\fs24 - Hru\rquote Kodra, Champion of Atagro
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab -Brian Hull (hope you like it, this is one of 26)
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Copyright(C) B. Hull 3-10-94
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Ultimate Mind Co.}
\par }