{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f31\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Matura MT Script Capitals;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f4\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext15 footer;}{\*\cs16 \additive\sbasedon10 page number;}}{\info
{\author Grover Hull}{\operator Grover Hull}{\creatim\yr1995\mo12\dy24\hr15\min26}{\revtim\yr1996\mo1\dy3\hr23\min40}{\version10}{\edmins416}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49197}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt720\margb720 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain \s15\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0 \f4\fs20 {\field{\*\fldinst {\cs16 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs16 9}}}{\cs16 
\par }\pard \s15\ri360\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 
\par }{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \f4\fs20 {\b\f31\fs96 Tristaris
\par \tab }{\fs40 Goddess of Misery, Mother of Endless Lamentations, Queen of Depthless Sorrow
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\f31\fs22 Description:  }{\fs22 Tristaris is the dark goddess of misery.  She is the last of the major chaos powers and was formed from the spirits of hopelessness and despair that coa
gulated in the chaos warp as a result of the widespread destruction and terror that was caused by the other gods of chaos.  Tristaris appears as a huge gray skinned woman with a gaunt, emaciated body and long, steel nails.  Her features are thin and sharp
 and her hair is white and wispy.  Tristaris has no eyes, and her eye sockets are constantly filled to overflowing with tears of black, thick liquid that runs down her cheeks and thin neck.  The goddess is swathed in a black mourner\rquote 
s shroud and bedecked wi
th elegant, though morbid jewelry of ivory and onyx.  The goddess wanders about the endless desolation of her pocket dimension in the chaos warp, singing an eerie, never ending song of sorrow and misery.  Her song recounts all of the tragedies that have e
ver occurred among mortals of the earth, and it is said that all who hear the song are doomed to spend the rest of their lives in everlasting hopelessness.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\f31\fs22 Worship:}{\b\fs22   }{\fs22 The goddess is only worshipped and revered by those who feel that all hope for the world 
is truly lost.  Her worshippers find some ease to their pain in crying out to her in recognition of the disaster that the world has become; and coercing others into thinking as they do.  Her champions are the most zealous of her worshippers.  They are who
lly convinced that the world is doomed and that their is nothing that can be done about it.  To speed the world\rquote 
s damnation the champions of Tristaris kill and condemn those who would oppose the gods of chaos and stand against the universal decay that they feel is the world\rquote 
s imminent fate and inevitable doom.  Her champions are rewarding for spreading the notion of helplessness against the world\rquote s end, and the misery that permeates the daily lives of her followers.  
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\f31\fs22 Friends & Enemies:  }{\fs22 Tristaris has no true allies or enemies among the other gods of chaos.  Her followers enjoy tempting even the other chaos worshippers to the goddess\rquote 
s misery; as it is the ultimate irony to have those who are destroying the world give in to a sorrowful realization of what they are doing.  
\par \tab 
\par \tab }{\b\f31\fs22 Magic:}{\b\fs22   }{\fs22 Tristaris does allow her followers to use whatever kinds of magic they are capable of; though the goddess herself never grants them spells.  
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\f31\fs22 Strictures:  }{\fs22 Tristaris\rquote 
s followers are incapable of feeling joy in anything other than spreading and validating their own depthless misery.  They are not really forbidden to do anything, though they all realize that whatever they do will not change the world\rquote s straigh
t and narrow course to its own damnation.  
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs28 
\par Child of Woe
\par }{\fs28 Disciple of Tristaris
\par }{\b\fs28 M 0, WS +20, BS +20, S +2, T +2, W +20, I +20, A +2, Dex +20, Ld +20
\par }\pard {\b\fs28 Int +20, Cl +20, Wp +20, Fel +20
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs28 
\par Rewards of Tristaris
\par }\pard {\fs22 Taking someone\rquote s hope away\tab \tab \tab 1\tab Killing those who would slow the end\tab 1\tab 
\par Robbing chaos champions of power\tab \tab 1\tab Preventing victory on a grand scale\tab 2
\par Destroying lives and happiness\tab \tab \tab 1\tab Converting someone to Tristaris\tab \tab 2
\par Convincing others of the end\tab \tab \tab 1\tab Aiding the cause of chaos\tab \tab 1/2
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs28 Symbol and Number
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab The number of Tristaris is four; after the four elemental disasters that serve
 to remind that the world is headed for impending doom.  These are fire, flood, earthquake and storm.  Her symbol is one half of a face, with the narrowed eye shedding tears.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs28 The Mark of Tristaris
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab 
The mark of Tristaris is the inability to feel joy or pleasure.  Accompanying this is a bonus of 3d6 wounds (the wretched shall endure the immanent perils of the earth) and one chaos attribute.  Followers of Tristaris are also inherently immune to all fo
rms of fear.
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs28 The Magic of Tristaris
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 \tab Armor:  }{\fs22 the armor of 
the goddess of misery is dark green or gray in color, and never includes a helm.  The armor is mostly plate mail, with bits of chain sticking out here and there.  With the armor of Tristaris always comes elaborate green and gray warpaint on the wearer
\rquote s face.  The warpaint is magical and protects the owner\rquote s head in the same way as a helm would.  If  additional armor points are received the warpaint becomes more elaborate.  
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Special Runes (d4):
\par \tab 1- Misery: }{\fs22 this rune causes any who strike the champion but }{\i\fs22 do not }{\fs22 
actually cause damage to roll a cool test or be overcome with heavy feelings of grief and be unable to do any more than dodge or parry in the following round.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 2- Mind Rune: }{\fs22 this rune causes any foe within ten yards to lose 20 points of intelligence for as long as they stay within that range.  Also the rune renders the wearer immune to all psychological effects.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 3- Rune of Omens: }{\fs22 this rune curses all those who harm the wearer of the armor.  Any who injure the wearer will later be subject to a violent spasm which causes one S10 hit as though the victim were }{\i\fs22 prone}{\fs22 
.  A successful toughness test reduces the damage by half.  The onset time for the effects of this rune is d10 hours.  
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 4- Spite:  }{\fs22 
this rune prevents any foes within sight from speaking to the wearer or casting any spells which involve speaking at him.  Foes may look at the champion and glare but their tongues will refuse to move.  The effect is unsettling enough to force foes to rol
l a cool test or acquire d6 insanity points.  
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Shields:  }{\fs22 the shields of Tristaris are very reflective and always project an image which is a mockery of the champion\rquote 
s foes.  Foes fighting the champion must roll a Wp test each round or be overwhelmed with sorrow for the deeply disturbing image of themselves that they see reflected in the shield\rquote 
s metal.  The effects of the shield can be turned on and off at will by the champion.  The shields appear to be dark green glass with black steel around the edges and streaks of blackness inside them.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Spells:  }{\fs22 Tristaris has no innate spells of her own.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 
\par \tab Items:  }{\fs22 Tristaris has several powerful chaos artifacts that are sometimes granted to her followers as rewards.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par \tab Cauldron of Keening:  }{\fs22 
this small, black iron cauldron holds approximately two gallons of liquid and can only be lifted by the chaos champion that it is given to.  The cauldron may be filled with any liquid, but its contents always turn to a deadly poison.  The two gallons yiel
d a total of 40 doses of the poison and the poison may be any type that the owner wishes.  The surface of the liquid is filled with shimmering images of what the nearest }{\i\fs22 good }{\fs22 
aligned creature or creatures are doing.  If a foe approaches within 90 feet of the owner of the cauldron it begins to emit a piercing wail which shapes itself into a green mist.  The wail causes }{\i\fs22 fear }{\fs22 
unless a cool test is made and the mist attacks in a shape mimicking the shadow of the champion, once per round (treat this as though the champion has an extra attack which may be used on any target within 90 feet.  One m
ist being will form from the cauldron for each reward that the champion has (other than this one).  The mist beings last until all enemies are further than 90 feet away.  The keening effect must be tested against each round.  The cauldron is normally worn
 at the hip or strapped to the back, though it weighs almost nothing to the champion who carries it.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Humanwood Stave:  }{\fs22 this powerful staff is fashioned from one of the branches of one of Tristaris\rquote s humanwood trees.  The staff appears to be made of normal
 wood with agonized human faces and grasping humanoid fingers protruding from it at various places.  The staff radiates an }{\i\fs22 aura of misery}{\fs22 
, like the trees, and any who approach or threaten its owner receive an instant penalty of -2/-20 to all statistics until they either leave the area or break off the attack.  In addition to this the staff has d4 chaos weapon properties; }{\i\fs22 one }{
\fs22 of which may chosen by the owner.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Snare of Weeping:  }{\fs22 this weapon appears to be a long, gnarled stick with a small, wispy net at one 
end that looks much like a bundle of cob webs.  The staff itself is dark gray wood and almost nine feet in length.  The net end can be used to attack and any hit immediately wraps up the foe\rquote 
s head.  The foe will then begin grabbing at his face and scream
ing and crying out miserably.  Snared foes remain prone for the rest of the round and can be struck by the other end of the staff which has a small blade mounted in it.  The staff becomes as flexible as a snake as soon as someone is snared so the blade ca
n 
be used to strike them.  The blade does normal d6 +S damage though it disregards all armor and counts as an enchanted weapon for purposes of attacking.  The blade may only be used to strike those who are already prone due to the net.  With a successful co
ol test at the end of the round the victim will break free and can fight normally in the following round.  Failure means that the victim spends the entire next round prone as before.  If the holder of the snare if hurt the net automatically comes off of t
he victim\rquote s head.  The weapon may only be used against humanoid creatures that are less than ten feet tall.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Tome of Tragedies:  }{\fs22 
this large, black book contains 400 pages.  On each of them is written a sorrowful, wretched poem that is foul enough to make even the bravest, most noble of hearts sink into bottomless misery.  If the champion begins to read the poem, all within 30 feet 
will permanently lose 10 points of leadership.  It takes one round to read a poem.  If a second poem is read to the same group th
ey will lose 1 point of strength.  A third will cost them 10 points of leadership and 1 more point of strength.  The fourth costs 20 Ld and 1 more strength and the fifth costs 2 more strength, 2 toughness, and reduces their Ld score to 10 (unless its alre
ady lower).  After the first reading those who hear it may roll a Wp test to resist the book\rquote s effects; though the book has a permanent equivalent of 40 magic points within it that may be used each round to lower someone\rquote 
s (or several different targets\rquote ) Wp
 test.  The Wp test is lowered by 5 points for each magic point spent, though only up to ten magic points may be used on any one target at any one time.  While listening to the poems the victims will not realize they are being drained, and will most likel
y want to hear the end (Int test).  Those who make it may attack the reader, who is prone while reading the book.
\par   }{\b\fs22 
\par \tab Sickle of Sades:  }{\fs22 these are the sickles used by Tristaris\rquote s greater demons, the Sades (say-deez).  The sickles are huge and engraved with g
reen and gray runes.  The sickles have an innate bonus to damage of +10, and any who are struck by them must roll a Wp test or collapse to the ground in tears.
\par }{\b\fs22 \tab Lash of Lament:  }{\fs22 these thick, green whips appear to be made of slick, dark vines and lined with thorns.  The whips act like normal whips, save that their ES is equal to the wielder\rquote 
s strength and they can disarm foes with a single attack.  The whips thorns will bite very deep if they ever strike unarmored flesh and so any hit to a location that is n
ot armored causes an additional 2d6 wounds requires that the victim roll a Wp test or be overcome with grief while remembering the last truly tragic thing that happened to him.  This grief causes the victim to be prone for the }{\i\fs22 next attack only}{
\fs22 , after which he regains his wits.
\par }{\b\fs22 
\par \tab Crook of Tristaris:  }{\fs22 this powerful weapon is a stave of ashen wood that is curved at the top like a crook.  The stave can block one attack per round and reflects magic back at the caster.  The crook also always knocks a foe on to hi
s back if it strikes the legs.  Humanoids knocked to the ground in this manner may only dodge or parry for the remainder of the round; others are unaffected.  The crook also has one chaos weapon property for each reward that the champion has.  Once per we
ek the crook can summon a Blissbane, which will remain and serve its summoner faithfully until its demise.  If used by a wizard the crook has a bonus to damage equal to twice his level, and doubles his magic points.  The crook also has the }{\i\fs22 
magic destroyer }{\fs22 and }{\i\fs22 freeze attack }{\fs22 abilities in the WFRP book when used by a spell caster.
\par 
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 Thief of Dreams:  }{\fs22 this dark green bladed sword is a potent weapon given only to the most worthy of champions.  The sword drains as much of the target\rquote s Wp and Int as it does wounds.  It has 4 chaos properties; }{\i\fs22 all }
{\fs22 of which may be chosen by the player.  The damage to Wp and Int is permanent or lasts until some sort of relevant cure spell is cast on the victim (like cure severe wound).  The sword will also always warn its owner of near
by enemies and can glow with a brilliant green radiance equal to that given off by a lantern.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs52 
\par Demons of Tristaris
\par }{\b\f31\fs32 
\par Blissbane
\par }{\fs28 Wailing Women of Misery\tab   Gaunt Spirits of Lamentation
\par Mistresses of Distress
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab 
This infernal creatures look like haggard, ghostly women with wild hair and gaunt, wrinkled bodies.  They wear white shroud like clothes and are translucent to the eye.  The Blissbanes emit occasional shrieks of pure misery as well as sudden bursts of ma
niacal laughter.  The wail inflicts one S10 hit on
 whomever the creature is looking at, while the laughing permanently drains d10 points of initiative.  To wail or laugh takes an entire round, and the creature is incapable of attacking any other way.  The damage from the wail ignores toughness }{\i\fs22 
and }{\fs22 armor, so the demon\rquote 
s cry is thus rightly feared.  The Blissbanes are immune to all psychological effects and can only be harmed by magical weapons.  They may pass through any obstacle as though they were ethereal, but are also incapable of manipulating any mater
ial objects.  Blissbanes never have attributes and have 0 AP.  The mere sight of them causes fear, and their incorporeal nature means that even those with magic weapons strike with a -10 penalty to hit.  Often Blissbanes appear in groups of four, the numb
er of Tristaris.
\par \tab }{\b\fs22 M  6, WS  0%, BS  0%, S  0, T  0, W  66, I  100%, A  0, Dex  0, Ld  89, Int  89, Cl  89
\par Wp  89, Fel  0}{\fs22   
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs32 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs32 Sloathe
\par }\pard \qc {\fs28 Mounts of Misery\tab     Steeds of Tristaris
\par Hunching Beasts of Suffering
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab The sloathes are bear sized creatures with four legs
 and short curved claws.  The creatures have no heads and appear to be made almost entirely of layer upon layer of dark rags and shrouds.  They make low grunting and grumbling sounds as they walk.  The sloathes lash out with their claws in combat, and the
y have the ability to collapse into a pile of useless rags.  The rags may be scattered by the wind or even burnt up; but unless every single one of them (d100) is destroyed the creature can return to its normal shape from any one of the pieces in only the
 time that it takes to make one attack.  Dissolving itself into rags initially takes a full round.  The creatures are immune to psychology and have 4 attributes.  They have 4 AP on all locations.
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab }{\b\fs22 M  12, WS  44%, BS  0, S  6, T  6, W  24, I  44%, A  4, Dex  0, Ld  89, Int  89, Cl  89
\par Wp  89, Fel  0
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs32 
\par Humanwood Tree
\par }\pard \qc {\fs28 Oaks of Despair\tab Roots of Evil
\par }\pard \qc {\fs28 Petrified Eyes of Torment
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab The humanwood trees are powerful demons that largely inhabit the groaning forests of misery in the pocket dimension that is Tristaris\rquote s realm
 in the chaos warp.  The trees look like stubby, twisted oak trees with thick trunks and anguished human faces and bodies seemingly squirming about beneath their flexible bark.  The trees speak a language that is their own and to hear it is to surely lose
 one\rquote s mind.  All who hear the trees speaking must roll a toughness test -20 or suffer a S9 hit to the head, as blood pours from the victim\rquote 
s ears.  Armor does not decrease this damage.  The trees lash out with their branches and two consecutive hits on a victim indicate that the victim has been grappled.  Unless the victim can roll a Dex test he becomes prone and held fast (see }{\i\fs22 
wrestling}{\fs22 
 in the WFRP book).  The tree has nine limbs that may attack so it can easily rip a held character to shreds.  The trees have 6 AP on all locations and can have d4 attributes.  The trees are immune to all psychology and to fire.  The trees can see and att
ack in all directions at once.
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab }{\b\fs22 M  1, WS  69%, BS  0, S  9, T  9, W  99, I  90%, A  9, Dex  89, Ld  89, Int  89, Cl  89
\par Wp  89, Fel  0  }{\fs28 
\par }{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs32 Sade
\par }\pard \qc {\fs28 Screaming Devils of Sorrow\tab Jeering Lords of Languishing
\par Sobbing Lords of Tribulation
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab The Sades are Tristaris\rquote 
s greater demons.  They look like gaunt red skinned men with long black beards, tiny horns from their foreheads and pointed chins.  The Sades dress like nobles and their eyes are white and constantly streaming with bloody tears.  
Each of them carries a large, gleaming sickle (see Magic of Tristaris) which they attack with 10 times per round.  They also each carry a Lash of Lamen
t and have long claws which they can use in close quarters.  All Sades can fly and have 10 skills from the WFRP book (demon\rquote 
s choice).  The Sades must consume twice their weight in living hearts each day that they exist in the material world if they are summoned.  Sades have 4d4 attributes and 8 AP on all locations.
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab }{\b\fs22 M  9, WS  90%, BS  90, S  10, T  10, W  56, I  100%, A  10, Dex  89, Ld  89, Int  89
\par Cl  89, Wp  89, Fel  89
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs48 Rewards of Tristaris
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 01-03\tab Head of Tristaris:  }{\fs22 champion gains the gruesome, mournful head of Tristaris.  Any who see the 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab champion will be overcome with anguish and sorrow and remain prone for as long as the 
\par \tab \tab mutant is in sight if they fail a Cl test.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 04-06\tab Wail of a Blissbane:  }{\fs22 champion may wail four times per day in the same manner as the demon.
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab Wailing in this manner does not cost the champion any attacks.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 07-09\tab Song of Tristaris:  }{\fs22 champion can utter the depressing ballad of the world\rquote s tragedies whenever 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab he wishes.  The song lowers the statistics of all who hear it by d3 x10/d3.  The effects \tab \tab \tab last for as long as the champion sings, though the champion may not attack or cast spells
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab while using this ability.  Creatures friendly to the champion are unaffected by the song.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 10-12\tab Nails of Tristaris:  }{\fs22 champion grows long black nails which will inflict 2d6 damage plus 1 insanity
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab point on a successful hit.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 13-15\tab Touch of Tribulation:  }{\fs22 champion can cause the person touched to feel incredible remorse and 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab misery to the point of attempting to take his own life if a Wp test is failed.  The test may \tab \tab \tab be lowered by -5% for each magic point that the champion expends, if he has any.  The 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab touch may be used at will, up to as many times per day as the champion has wounds.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 16-18\tab Moan of Despair:  }{\fs22 anyone within four yards of the champion when he moans in this manner is 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab cursed to fight for the next d4 rounds as if his strength were 1.  The champion may moan
\par \tab \tab at will, up to 4 times per day.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 19-21\tab Keening of Tristaris:  }{\fs22 whenever the champion is wounded he emits a shrill cry which causes 1 \tab \tab \tab wound of damage to whoever it was that hurt him.}{\b\fs22 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 
\par 22-24\tab Cauldron of Keening
\par 
\par 25-27\tab Snare of Weeping
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 28-30\tab Aura of Misery:  }{\fs22 champion radiates this aura in a 10 yard radius.  All within this radius (other \tab \tab \tab than champions of Tristaris must roll a Wp test to do anything other than stand there \tab \tab \tab 
depressed.  Only one test need be made per round.  Those who fail are prone.  The aura
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab may be \ldblquote turned on\rdblquote  by the champion at will.. }{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 31-33\tab Breath of Hopelessness:  }{\fs22 champion can breathe this cloud of white mist at will, though it does 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab take an entire round.  The cloud acts like }{\i\fs22 mystic mist }{\fs22 with additional powers:  anyone 
\par \tab \tab inside the mist is automatically caught for d8 rounds and must roll a Wp test each round
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab or collapse in despair.  Those who have collapsed suffer a -10 to further Wp tests and \tab \tab \tab must roll a successful test to get up and continue trying to escape the cloud.  Rounds that
\par \tab \tab the victim spends on the ground in despair do not count as part of the duration of the \tab \tab \tab cloud; thus a victim who continually fails Wp tests could conceivably end up stuck in the
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab cloud forever.  Those who are failing their tests count as prone if attacked.  Those inside
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab the cloud cannot cast spells or attack or even see anything.  The cloud is 12 yards in \tab \tab \tab diameter and dissipates as soon as no one remains inside it.  
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 
\par 
\par 34-36\tab Gaze of Depthless Sorrow:  }{\fs22 this merciless gaze may be trained on but one victim per day.  The 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab champion merely looks at his query and causes him to roll }{\i\fs22 two }{\fs22 Wp tests.  If either one is 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab failed the victim bursts into tears for d4 rounds, and can only dodge or parry if attacked.  \tab \tab \tab If both fail the victim collapses to his knees bawling and weeping for 4d4 rounds and is 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab completely prone during this entire period. }{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par 37-39\tab Humanwood Stave
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 40-42\tab Curse of Lacking:  }{\fs22 champion points a finger at his target and utters a few lines of a cursed \tab \tab \tab chaos poem and causes the victim\rquote s most prized possession to vanish forever.  The 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab victim is allowed a Wp test to resist, but even if it is successful the victim will be stunned
\par \tab \tab and overcome with grief for the following round; during which he has a penalty of -20 to
\par \tab \tab hit the champion.  This ability takes no more time than one attack and may be used 4
\par \tab \tab times per day.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par 43-45\tab Tome of Tragedies
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 46-48\tab Laugh of a Blissbane:  }{\fs22 champion  may laugh in the same way as the demon up to four times
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab per day.  The laugh does not even cost an attack, though the champion may not cast any 
\par \tab \tab spells while doing so.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 49-51\tab Misfortune:  }{\fs22 champion calls down the wrath of Tristaris upon the target.  The victim gets d12 \tab \tab \tab points of }{\i\fs22 bad luck }{\fs22 which the champion may use against the target however and \tab \tab \tab 
\tab whenever he chooses.  The points function in the same way as luck, but can be made to 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab affect only rolls that are made by the victim.  All of the points could even be used on one
\par \tab \tab roll if the champion wishes.  This ability can only be used once per day.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par 52-54\tab Lash of Lament
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 55-57\tab Shroud of Despair:  }{\fs22 champion gains a dark black garment that wraps even his armor.  The cloth \tab \tab that covers his head is thin and can be seen through clearly.  The shroud doubles his AP \tab \tab \tab 
and also allows him to move with complete silence.  The sight of the shroud causes \tab \tab \tab despair in anyone who sees it.  Those who fail a Ld test will be unable to take any action \tab \tab \tab 
other than defend themselves if physically attacked for 4d4 rounds.  Those who see the
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab shroud need only test once.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par 58-60\tab Sickle of Sades
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 61-63\tab Curse of the Wasting Mind:  }{\fs22 champion can employ this ability only once per day; and some \tab \tab \tab sort of physical contact must be made with the victim for it to work.  The touch causes \tab \tab \tab 
the victim to lose d10 points of Int, Cl, Wp, Ld, and Fel each day until all of these are \tab \tab \tab reduced to 10.  After three days the victim is allowed an Int test to figure out what 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab happened.  Only a }{\i\fs22 cure disease}{\fs22  spell will remove the effects; otherwise they are \tab \tab \tab \tab permanent.}{\b\fs22 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 
\par 64-66\tab Thief of Dreams
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 67-69\tab Unnatural Humors:  }{\fs22 up to four times per day the champion may cause this power to take effect
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab in any person that he can see.  A mere gesture sets the ability on and it takes its toll the 
\par \tab \tab very next time that the victim feels any type of strong emotion; anger, fear, happiness,
\par \tab \tab misery, or even intense surprise can trigger its effects.  When the power is triggered the
\par \tab \tab victim uncontrollably takes his emotions too far.  He begins to spasm with the intensity of
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab his emotion and suddenly suffers a S8 hit from internal damage.  The damage can be \tab \tab \tab halved with a successful toughness test, but the curse lasts for d4 days.  This ability costs
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab champion one wound point per use, and that point cannot be recovered until the victim has
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab either died from the effects of the humors or lasted their duration.  This ability can be \tab \tab \tab used more than once on a single victim; thus causing him to suffer multiple hits.  Only \tab \tab \tab 
natural toughness will decrease the damage.   }{\b\fs22 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 
\par 70-72\tab Crook of Tristaris
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 73-75\tab Tears of Poison:  }{\fs22 champion may burst forth with flowing, passionate tears at any moment.  \tab \tab \tab These pour out with such ferocity as to gather after in one round to a puddle around the
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab champion\rquote s feet.  Any creature standing in the puddle other than the champion suffers a 
\par \tab \tab S10 hit every round.  This ability may be used at will.  }{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 76-78\tab Death Wail:  }{\fs22 if the champion is dealt a killing blow he suddenly emits a piercing, deadly wail.  All
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab within 44 yards of him begin to groan and ache with the same pain that the champion may 
\par \tab \tab felt from the killing blow (or just groan and ache everywhere if the champion felt no pain).  
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab Each round all within 44 yards suffer one S10 hit from the numbing pain.  They must \tab \tab \tab leave the area for the pain to desist.  Sticking around will cause them to feel the pain for
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab d4 hours!  Anyone foolish enough to try and wait it out will most likely die; and so the 
\par \tab \tab champion\rquote s misery at his own death will have won him much company. }{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 79-81\tab Morph of the Sloathe:  }{\fs22 champion can change form just like the demons of that name.  The 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab champion can assume no other form than the pile of rags; just like the demon.  This ability
\par \tab \tab may be used any number of times per day.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 82-84\tab Sign of Deceit:  }{\fs22 this ability functions exactly like the chaos attribute }{\i\fs22 illusion of normality}{\fs22 .}{\b\fs22 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 85-87\tab Sinful Tendency:  }{\fs22 the champion becomes unable to go for more than d4 hours without 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab committing some horrible act to make someone absolutely miserable.  If forced
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab into violating this reward the champion is reduced to zero wounds and slips
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab into a coma for d10 days; after which the reward is revoked; leaving the
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab champion with a permanent loss of d4 wounds.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 88-90\tab Dark Weeping of Doom:  }{\fs22 champion feels the depth of the tragedy that lies heavily
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab on the world and is able to weep with the tears of Tristaris herself for one round
\par \tab \tab per day.  Any who hear or see this weeping are flung back 4d4 yards and take 
\par \tab \tab damage as though they fell this far.  Those who are killed due to this power are
\par \tab \tab immediately transformed into Blissbanes who will serve the champion until death
\par \tab \tab or the next sunrise; whichever comes first.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 91-93\tab Tones of the Humanwood:  }{\fs22 once per round, as an attack, the champion may utter foul,
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab depressing tones which damage the ears of all those who hear it.  Those within 
\par \tab \tab ten yards must roll a toughness test -20 or suffer a S9 hit to the head as blood
\par \tab \tab pours from their ears.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 94-96\tab Chains of Vainly Longing:  }{\fs22 champion becomes wrapped loosely in chains which have
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab large locks, weights, and keys dragging behind them.  The chains cause }{\i\fs22 terror }{\fs22 in
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab all who see the champion (check every round) and reduce the champion\rquote s move
\par \tab \tab by one half.  The chains contain d12 boxes, and each box contains an attribute.  
\par \tab \tab The attributes may be taken or given to someone else who is willing; or just
\par \tab \tab dismissed.  Once a box is opened it disappears; as does the key that was meant
\par \tab \tab to open it.  The last box always contains an attribute of the champion\rquote s choosing.
\par \tab \tab The chains add +2 AP to the champion and give his foes a -10 to hit him.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 97-98\tab Daemonic Name:  }{\fs22 Tristaris gives the champion a daemonic name to commemorate his deeds.
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab With each roll the name increases by one syllable.}{\b\fs22 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 99-00\tab Chaos Attribute:  }{\fs22 Tristaris decides that the champion is not worth a reward at all; so she 
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab \tab gives him a depressing attribute instead.}{\fs28 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f31\fs28 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs36 \ldblquote Sorrow and Misery will swallow all the children of the \tab earth...\rdblquote }{\fs22 
\par }\pard {\fs22 
\par \tab \tab \tab - Juvagla, Champion of Tristaris
\par 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab -Brian Hull  (fall before the throne of the depressing god...he he)
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Copyright (C) 3-11-94
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Ultimate Mind Co.
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab }{\b\fs22   }{\fs22 
\par }\pard {\fs22   }{\b\f31\fs28 
\par }\pard \qc {\fs22   }
\par }