{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar 
\f4\fs20\lang1044 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Thomas \'d8sterlie}{\operator Thomas \'d8sterlie}{\creatim\yr1996\mo10\dy4\hr20\min38}{\revtim\yr1996\mo10\dy4\hr20\min39}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages7}
{\nofwords3943}{\nofchars20902}{\*\company HF-EDB, NTNU}{\vern57435}}\margl1417\margr1417\margb1417 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz425\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery1080\colsx709 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\nowidctlpar \f4\fs20\lang1044 {\b\fs48 The Ties that Bind
\par or
\par Never Dance With the Devil In Church
\par }{\b\fs24 by
\par Will Wisner
\par 
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar {\fs24 
This module is roughly taken from an unpublished short story by my highschool biology teacher from long ago, John Deakins.  Barrow is his world of fantasy.  I enjoy visiting his realm very much and have decided to make it a part of my Warhammer universe. 
 If you would like to enjoy Mr. Deakins imagination as much as I have, his book "Barrow" is available from Roc books, check it out.  While this module is ro
ughly taken from a short story of his, it is unrecognizable as such. Only the names of the innocent have remained the same. In it the party assumes the roles of a group of hired thieves.  
\par 
\par It takes place inside of the town of Barrow, }{\b\fs24\ul THE }{\fs24 
armpit of the Border Princes.  For background on Barrow, and the Ichan Empire, see my other net contributions or if I havn't gotten around to posting them yet by the time you read this, just email me and I'll be happy to send you my Border Princes Barrow 
campaign archives.  At any rate, enjoy and be sure to email me with your comments.  I can be reached at wiz@northnet.org 
\par }{\fs24\ul ________________________________________________________________________
\par }{\fs24 
\par This scenario takes place in the Border Princes town of Barrow.  It can be replaced with any other town within the Warhammer Fantasy universe as can the names of the gods worshipped in Barrow.  The name of the Gryphon and Goblet }{\b\fs24 must}{\fs24 
 stay the same.
\par 
\par Our story opens within the walls of Barrows most infamous of taverns, the Gryphon an
d Goblet.  It is a cold and windy night and even the usual busy cutpurse has decided to seek shelter from the cold.  The Gryphon and Goblet is, as normal is  packed to capacity with the usual dregs of Barrow society, but tonight is extra special, Krovik Q
uickhand, a well known burglar and former cutpurse has decided to give up the life of a rouge and try his hand at spinning tales.  Tonight is his main debut.
\par 
\par Your group has decided to take up an offer of a mysterious contact who promises great reward, and meet him here tonight, with the grand offerings of the soon to be master bard, Krovik Quickhand serving as a smokescreen from prying eyes and ears.  
\par 
\par By the time your contact arrives, the crowd within the tavern is worked up into a hysterical laughter by Krovik as he tells of the time the powerful mage Brandelvar attempted to make a daring raid upon the Ba-la-nar Temple.  He is a large well muscled man
, wearing a mailed shirt, plain black trousers, high heavy boots and toting a two-handed sword.  The man smiles with a cock-eyed grin as he approaches to sit at your table.
\par 
\par The mans name is Duncan Ironfist.  A former soldier within the Princes guard.
\par 
\par }{\i\fs24 Paraphrase the following during the course of conversation with the party.}{\fs24 
\par 
\par "I am pleased to see that you have accepted my offer to hear me out.  I trust you are enjoying Kroviks tale? ummmmm...." he says as he motions to Krovik on the taverns stage.  "You see, the thiefs tale is quite important.  You should listen carefully to i
t, for the offer I am making you t
his night will be the model of the bards instructions.  You see, I am putting together a team to take a crack at the treasury within the Ba-la-nar temple.  I know I know, it's just a Bards tale.  Well, I just so happen to know differently.  You see, my br
other was killed on Brandelvars little raid, and I also just happen to know that Krovik Quickhand had more to do with that little fiasco than simply knowing the tale well enough to tell it for a few coppers.  So listen up!"
\par 
\par }{\b\fs32 KROVIKS TALE
\par }{\fs24 
\par }{\i\fs24 Read or paraphrase the following to the party as if you were Krovik Quickhand retelling the tale of Brandelvar and the Temple of Ba-la-nar.}{\fs24 
\par 
\par "After the wizards duel between Brandelvar and the Wizard Blackhorn within these very walls which many of you will remember, Brandelvar stepped over the charred corpse of the mage and headed to the shadow shrouded table in the corner, yes that one right t
here where that dwarf   and his party now sits, to meet with his benefactor.  
\par 
\par Most of you will remember Mungo, the Keslivite immigra
nt who was running black root from the swamps of sorrow a few autumns back, well he had decided to launch an operation into the bowls of the Ba-la-nar Temple.   At any rate, Brandelvar, who always was known for being greedy, but not for being stupid, quic
kly voiced his concern as to the wisdom of assaulting the temple which is guarded by the best sell swords in all of Barrow.  Mungo, quickly laid to rest any doubts of danger by steel by introducing his own party of Armsmen.  Among them were, Kreften, the 
in
famous Pit Fighter, Hansel StrongBow, the mysterious ranger from the southern wastes, Borris, the Kesliv Mercenary who in those days would pass through the area once in a while to do a little "shady" work for the Prince.  Now finally among Mungo's troupe 
was myself, whose function was to be getting the group over the temples walls.  I had agreed to accompany the group on the contingency that Brandelvar would go along to ensure success.  It was all up to Brandelvar.  
\par 
\par He raised his eyebrows in obvious consi
deration.  He drew a long breath and at last said.... "fifty percent of the haul, no less."  We all let our relief show as we couldn't help but to smile and Mungo in true Barrow fashion haggled with the mage for the better part of an hour until the wizard
 agreed to 35%."
\par 
\par "Hey!" came a cry from the now quiet, sitting on edge of seat audience, "Just why in the hell would ol' Mungo need the likes of you cutpurse, if he was to have the services of one of the most powerful wizards in the whole Border Princes?!"
\par 
\par "Ah! A valid question indeed.  You see, what most of you do not know is that while a young lad, I was apprenticed off to be an initiate of the priests of Ba-la-nar.  Now I have wandered through the halls of the temple many times and knew the building well
."
\par 
\par "Thats Horse cocky!"  Answered the antagonist from the crowd.  "Everyone in Barrow knows that theres dark things within that temple that even the Priests are afraid of."
\par 
\par "Quite true my good man, quite true indeed.  You see, theres an inner chamber wi
thin the temple that sits within a swirl of passage ways that only the High Priest dares to enter.  It is there that this unknown darkness dwells, as well as the temples quite extensive treasure vault."
\par 
\par "And just how in the name of all the gods are we supposse to believe that you, a supposse initiate would know this?  Eh, answer me that }{\i\fs24 Bard}{\fs24 !  Said the man mockingly.
\par 
\par "Again a quite valid question oh doubtful one!" said Krovik smiling with delight that someone had bitten on his bait.  "You see, I was even at that tender age always....}{\i\fs24 ambitious }{\fs24 
and I wanted to see for myself that for which the Priests always mentioned so darkly."
\par 
\par "Not to mention the treasure you little thief!"  Roared another patron.  The entire tavern roared in laughter as well.
\par 
\par After waiting for the room to again quiet down, Krovik continued  "I had watched the High Priest enter the maze many a time, 
always carring a large sack.  A sack that had the jingle of coin.  It was one hot summer night, just before one of the Orc  raids as I remember it, I snuck out of my chamber and followed the High Priest, sticking close to the shadows.  I followed him into
 the maze, staying a careful distance back, around and around in a spiral corridor we went.  It was here that I learned one of my most important lessons in thieving, always look for the most advantageous route of travel.  You see, I slipped up while follo
wi
ng the priest and sneezed quite loudly I must say.  I panicked as the High Priest spun around to see who followed.  There was a look of terror in his eyes.  I then knew that he must also be afraid of the darkness within the temple.  I remained silent and 
waited for the punishment that was sure to follow his finding me out.  But after pausing only a short while, he himself regained his composure and continued down the hall.  I was about to turn and make my way back to my chamber when I heard the sounds of 
footsteps approaching from back down the hall.  I knew it was the guards making their rounds."
\par 
\par "Hey wait a minute bard!"  Piped up the antagonist yet again."You said that only the High Priest dared to enter the maze!"
\par 
\par "Oh, uh... so I did.  Well, what I failed to mention, was that the guards who were even more frightened of the unknown darkness than the priests, it was their duty to patrol down the spiral maze to a cretin point.  You see, they would not go to the heart 
of the maze for any amount of pay or sense of duty, but the priests did insist that they did a token sweep since the Treasury was supposse to be located there. 
\par 
\par Now where was I.... Oh yes, well, at any rate, I heard the footsteps fast approaching.  I knew I was finished and my folly would go not unpaid for.  I quickly searched around for a way out, and then I noticed it."
\par 
\par Your Benefactors lips twist into a smile at this point and his eyes urge you to pay close attention.
\par 
\par "The ceiling was a good five feet higher than the top of the wall.  Now 
growing up running in the streets of Barrow like I had, I had developed several useful tricks.  One of those tricks was the ability to climb up walls as if they were ladders, and I was a master painter.  I quickly scurried up the wall and found a large cr
awl space between the wall and the ceiling.  I waited for the guard to pass and then made my way along the wall back to the entrance and ultimately my room.  Never again did I enter into the maze.
\par 
\par So you see, Mungo who I had told of this some time earlier,
 was quite interested in this crawlspace.  When I learned that he wanted to use that unknown fact of the wall space, I of course wanted my share of the take as is my Barrowmans right!  I had provided the information that would lead to his success but he d
idn't quite see it that way.  He had all ready put his group together and had claimed the bragging rights of the secret of the wall.  If he was to let me in on a cut, he would look a fool, so he insisted that I allow the use of my fathers sword in return 
for the take as well as ensuring a deversion so the group could scale the wall.  I agreed to this once I was assured that Brandelvar was to accompany them.  With the wizards sorcery, they were bound for nothing less than success!"
\par 
\par Krovik continues into his tale of Brandelvar and the temple as your contact turns again to you.
\par 
\par }{\i\fs24 Again paraphrase the following during the course of conversation.}{\fs24 
\par 
\par "You see... The wall space!  Never mind how it turned out for Brandelvar.  He was a good wizard no doubt, hell he stil
l is, but one good spell slinger does not an effective party make.  No no... you need wits.  Thats why I contacted you.  I have heard you are quite clever and I have no doubts that with this knowledge of the wall space, that we shall overcome that which B
randelvar and his party of fools could not."
\par 
\par Duncan will offer the Party equal shares of the treasury, and will further entice the party with rumors of great magical and holy treasures within the vault.  He insists that the group leave immediately as he ha
s arranged for a group of local street urchins to cause a disturbance around the main gate of the temples grounds to attract the attention of the guards, and they are to begin their job within the hour.
\par 
\par The Party must leave before Krovik can finish his tale so that they will not learn of the Darkness within.  Not very prudent on Duncans behalf but it makes for a better tale for you the GM.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs36 
\par THE TEMPLE GROUNDS OF BA-LA-NAR
\par }{\fs24 
\par The party will remain hidden across the street from the temple in an ally until the
 children start their diversion.  Once they do, Duncan will run at the section of wall farthest from the main gate, i.e. the back of the temple grounds.  He launches a rope with grappling hook over the wall and begins to climb.  The climb requires a succe
ssful Dex check.  Once across the wall, the party will be able to tell that the children's ruckus has successfully drawn all of the grounds guards to the gate.  The court yard is empty.  }{\b\fs24 See map of the temple grounds.
\par 
\par }{\fs24 A ten foot wall surrounds the grounds of the temple.  The walls are made of smooth granite blocks and are of obvious superb construction, probably dwarven make.
\par }{\b\fs24 
\par Temple Grounds Map Key
\par 1.}{\fs24   The Main gate is locked from the inside and always manned by two temple guards.  A walk way leads from the gate past a guard house to a set of large marble stairs leading to the temple.
\par }{\b\fs24 M  WS  BS  S  T  W  I  A  DEX  LD  INT  CL  WP  FEL
\par }{\fs24 3     35    30  3  4*  6  30 1   25      30    25     35    32    28
\par * calculated T including armor.  suit of chainmail, shield.  Any head blows recieve 1 additional pt. of Toughness for a Helm.
\par Hand weapon- Sword
\par Cross Bow  12 quarrels
\par }{\b\fs24 2.  }{\fs24 
The Temple of Ba-la-nar is a massive building made entirely from marble save for the large silver dome which looms over head.  Steps lead to the column supported entranceway.  Statues abound everywhere on the landing of the entranceway.  The statues are o
f many beautiful women, the wives of ba-la-nar, the god of all.  They each hold an item of which they have dominion over, i.e. wheat, fish, gems and jewels, etc. etc.
\par 
\par A small building (the garden shed) sits off to the north side of the temple.  This garden shed doubles for maintenance and ladder rungs lead up to the roof of the building and ultimately to the roof of the temple from within the shed.  
\par 
\par On the roof, at the base of the silver dome, there is a small obscure service entrance into the temple. It is not guarded and is the biggest flaw with the temples design, it allows easy entrance into the tem
ple for thieves crafty enough to avoid the grounds guards.  Once inside the service entrance, one would find him or herself within the support structure of the dome.  This passage leads completely around the dome and has only one exit from the dome into t
he temple.  Directly behind the head of the Idol of Ba-la-nar, out of sight from anyone within the main temple, there is a service hatch that one could easily jump onto the head of the idol.}{\b\fs24  }{\fs24 
Once ontop of the idol remaining unseen and getting down could raise a problem.  }{\b\fs24 See}{\fs24  }{\b\fs24 area six of the next section for more information on the chamber and the idol. 
\par }{\fs24 
\par }{\b\fs24 3.}{\fs24 
  The garden of ba-la-nar is a beautiful garden during the spring and summer months, however the current cold season has left the garden empty and quite ugly.  The Statue of ba-la-nar is the center piece of the garden and sits brooding, ever vigilant.  Th
e statue appears to be made of black marble, and he is depicted as a multi armed obese man with a long beard which hangs to the rim of his fat belly.  His 
head is bald but thick eye brows arch high on his forehead.  The statue is dressed in robes.  There is a small offering pool at the base of the statue which is littered with many coins tarnishing away in the cold water.  A size 3 water elemental guards th
e lords offerings until the priests gather them up once a season.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 M   WS   BS   S   T   W   I   A   DEX   LD   INT   CL   WP   FEL
\par }{\fs24 3      30    30    3   3    3    30 3     30       30    30      30     30      -
\par Elemental rules can be found on pp. 254 of the WFRP book.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 4.}{\fs24 
  The temple grounds are plotted with many trees that surround the massive temple.  Grass is maintained during spring, summer, and fall months, but the cold season has turned the grass brown and brittle.  Ground hogs have taken up residence within the yar
d and all characters attempting to move quickly across the yard must make a successful Dex check while running to avoid twisting an ankle for a wound point.  One success will successfully navigate the yard to the temples walls.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 5.}{\fs24   The grounds outside the wall are dotted with trees.  The groundhog problem (see area 4.) is present in this area as well.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs36 The Temple of Ba-La-Nar
\par }{\fs24 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 1.}{\fs24 
The Doors to the Temple are made of a shining mithril.  Eldritch runes are etched into the doors themselves.  If a character can decipher the runes, they will read, "The house of Ba-La-Nar is the home of his children.  Enter faithful and bask in his love.
  Give of your selves and recieve his blessing."  The doors of course stand underneath the column supported landing described in the temple grounds key.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 2.  }{\fs24 
Past the doors is the temple common.  Rooms to the left and the right are closed with heavy oak doors.  Many objects of beautiful art decorate the insides of the temple.  Doors to the inner sanctum of the temple lie across from the temples entrance.  They
 are gold and are etched with images of Ba-la-nar.  They open magicly when the word Sacrifice is spoken aloud.  Otherwise they will not open from the outside but do open freely from the inner sanctum.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 3.}{\fs24   The n
orthern room behind the oaken door, is the High Priests office.  Inside it is lavishly furnished with fine Tilean style decore.  Objects of art, such as paintings, small idols and statues, vases, and jeweled boxes, sit atop all of the desks and cabnits wi
thin.  The carpeted floor is a site to behold worthy of a king.  It is finely woven carpet, dyed a rich purple, and depicts Ba-la-nar reaching out to his children with all six of his arms.  The High Priests desk is a large heavy oak and is carved with fig
ur
es depicting lovemaking and of offering.  Many papers clutter the desk.  None of the papers are of any relevence.  They mostly are records of church transactions, and copies of up coming cermons, all dealing with how Ba-la-nar will bless if you give of yo
ur self.  i.e. money.
\par }{\b\fs24 4. }{\fs24 Priests chambers.  These cells are small 10x10 rooms with a simple mat on the floor for sleeping.  There are cabnits along the walls for the ceremonial robes, a different robe for each day.  A small chest is beside the cabnit.  Thes
e chests will contain the personal belongings of the Priests which are few.  The preists are required to be forever poor for Ba-la-nar and are required to be castrated.  Most personal belongs will be writings and poetry.  A ceremonial dagger is also with 
each chest.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 5.}{\fs24 
  The love making chamber.  Many pillows fill the room and the faithful may come here to participate in free love with other children of Ba-la-nar.    At any time during the day there will be 2d10+5 members of the church partaking of the sinf
ul orgey.  Priests in ceremonial robe stand watch at the door and admit only the faithful.  They are armed with ceremonial spears.
\par }{\b\fs24 M   WS   BS   S   T   W   I   A   DEX   LD   INT   WP   FEL
\par }{\fs24 4       35    15   2   2    4    40  1    35       50    35       30     50
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 6.}{\fs24 
  The chamber of Ba-la-nar.  This is the inner sanctum of Ba-la-nar.  The domed silver ceiling rises two hundred feet above and is lit by a constant magical flame.  The idol of Ba-la-nar is huge.  Nearly one hundred feet high and easily 50 fe
et across, the fat god watches over his house with an eerie silence.  Large jewls serve as eyes for the idol, and each of his outstretched six hands hold a burning flame.  Many columns rise up from the floor to reach nothing as they fall 150 feet short of
 the dome.  The decortavie columns have many carved figuers of Ba-la-nar's many wives.  There will always be five guards (see above stats) on watch in the sanctum.  1d4 priests will be found praying.  On holy days, the congregation will gather.  It number
s 150.  These are the rich merchan class of Barrow who choose to give to recieve the many "blessings" of Ba-la-nar.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 7.}{\fs24 
  Meditation chamber for the priests.  This room is open without a door.  A small idol of Ba-la-nar serves as the priests foci.  1d4 priests and iniates can be found meditating in prayer here at all times except after the midnight hour when they are requi
red to sleep until dawn.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 8.  }{\fs24 The entrance to the sprial maze.  This stairway leading down to the maze is open and large.  Nearly 20 feet ac
ross, the entranceway is guarded on both sides by statues of two of Ba-la-nar's wives.  The open space along the top of the walls can be accessed from here.  You can also gain entrence to the maintance space from here also.  }{\b\fs36 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 9.  }{\fs24 The garden shed.  see map key from temple grounds above.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs36 The Spiral Maze
\par }{\fs24 
\par This area is not mapped as it is simply a spiral corridor spiraling downward for 1000 meters.  The guards will patrol up until 800 meters, there they will turn and quickly make their way back out.  At the e
nd of the 1000 meters, a large 20x20 door made of gold and etched with an angry Ba-la-nar  this marks the end of the corridor.  In front of the door is a pentagram carved deep into the stonework of the floor.
\par 
\par After a short time infront of the pentecal, the demon , who has been listening to the conversation of the party, will decide to make an appearance.  Anything entering the circle, even a finger, will instantly burn up into ash (the pentegram serves as a pr
ison for the demon inside.  On the reverse side
 of the pentegram is a small pocket deminsion that is of such a great tempeture, no normal material could withstand its heat).  This of course excludes magical or holy items and the demon itself.  The demon appears as two orange eyes.  If he should happen
 to smile, large orange sharp teeth can be seen, other than this, the demon is totally invisible. 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs36 HISTORY of ZOORSH
\par }{\fs24 
\par Many years ago, when Barrow was a fledgling town of refugees, located directly on the front lines of battle, a powerful magician Ba-la-nar
, was commissioned to enter into the temple of Na-nook, a long forgotten god of the area, to track down and destroy an incredibly clever demon who had been harassing the allied armies against the hoards of chaos.  It seems that the priests of Na-nook had 
managed to capture the demon with a powerful binding spell courtesy of Na-nook.  The demon managed to escape by beguiling one of the weaker priests.  The demon was quite upset at being beaten by one of this planes mere lesser godlings and his wrath was qu
it
e extreme; he killed most of the priests in the temple and set the building ablaze.  Once he tried to leave the now burning inferno, he found that he could not  cross the seals of Na-nook (golden seals set within the floor depicting Na-nook and his childr
en.  They were set at the entrances of all entrance and exit ways.).  He was trapped within the temple, this was simply a minor inconvenience.  He decided to wander around inside until  the building was damaged enough that he could simply fly out of the s
he
ll of the burned building.  Thats when Ba-la-nar arrived.  The remaining priests had hired him to save the temple and re-capture the demon.  Now Ba-la-nar was quite a clever magician himself, and was a match for the cleverness of the demon.  He quickly co
rnered the demon within the spiral hallway of the lower level.  The demon challenged Ba-la-nar to a battle of riddles as it could not beat the mage with use of raw power, nor could the mage best the demon.  Ba-la-nar won the contest and trapped the demon 
ri
ght there at the end of the spiral hallway.  The demon's prison was itself an ingenious trap.  In order to be free of the pocket dimension, the demon must grant three consecutive wishes to whomever would be so bold as to ask.  The catch was that the demon
 must remain true to his alignment...evil. 
\par 
\par }{\b\fs36 The Three Wishes}{\fs24  }{\b\fs36 and the Door of the Treasury}{\fs24 
\par 
\par As explained above, for the demon to be free he must grant three consecutive wishes to one person while remaining true to his evil nature.  For example, if some one was to wish for a chest of gold, it would appear directly above the wishers head.  
\par 
\par This is extremely tricky on the GMs part and requires the GM to be very quick on his feet.  If the wisher asks for something that would force the demon to go against his nature, such as becoming a good aligned creature, the demon will respond that such a 
request is outside of this granting capabilities, thus forcing the wisher to play by Ba-la-nars rules.  A good wish that will not be lethal must be carefully worded.  
\par 
\par The demon will explain Ba-la-nars curse to the characters and encourage them to be crafty and wish carefully.  If the party decides to simply side step the demons pentacle and enter the golden door to the treasury, they will find that the door can only be
 opened by the High Priest of the temple.  If they decided to leave the hallway and go back the
 way they came, a wandering guard patrol will discover them and force them back down the hall way.  Remember that the guards will only go as far as 800 meters and then set up an observation point, patiently waiting for the demon to kill the party with his
 granted wishes.  This should force the party to play the demons game.  
\par 
\par The demon whose name is Zoorsh (this is his most closely guarded secret and if the party should happen to pry it from him during the course of conversation, reward them for it), is ve
ry lonely and will happily carry on polite conversation.  He is sick of only being able to converse with the High Priest who only wants to talk of converting Zoorsh to Ba-la-nar.  He will happily tell the party anything they want to know about him except 
for his name.  He should be played as a carefree little spoiled brat.  He will constantly poke fun at the party and will only stop picking on someone if he thinks hes hurt feelings and that the person whose feelings were hurt won't play his game.
\par 
\par If the demon does successfully grant the three wishes, then he intends to wreak havoc on this puny little planet and then gracefully go home.  
\par 
\par This section of the game, which is intended to be the climax of the adventure can be quite costly.  Someone will probably die, or at the least several fate points will be spent.  Have fun with the demon and let your nasty evil side of being a GM go wild.

\par 
\par Zoorsh has no stats as he should be played with the idea in mind that he can do anything and is untouchable while within the pentacle.    
\par 
\par }}