{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f55\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 GranStencil;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4\fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Khorne}{\author Grover Hull}{\operator Grover Hull}{\creatim\yr1996\mo6\dy16\hr15\min38}{\revtim\yr1996\mo6\dy16\hr16\min10}
{\version3}{\edmins34}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49197}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \f4\fs22 {\fs16 Excerpt from a Treatise on the Chaos Wastes and life, both politic and religious, near the mouth of the warp...}{\b\f55\fs36 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Khorne
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f55\fs36 
\par }\pard \tab 
Khorne is the one chaos god that has come anywhere close to dominating the chaos wastes.  His legions of bloodthirsty demons and war children sweep across the blasted plains in a never ending killing frenzy.  The demons surge and spawn from the no
rthernmost city of chaos in the Realm of Chaos itself.  This is the bastion city of Khorne, Khorinaun.  Khorne\rquote s mighty fortress of iron and brass lies behind a magnificent 500 foot wall of bone and sinew, melted and fused between
 great slats of thick, blackened steel.  Beyond the wall is the road, a wide expanse of ancient rock stained and faded from centuries of blood and gore trampled into its surface.  The monolithic fortress; the Ironraim, towers above the barren, corpse floo
ded plains that lie beyond th
e wall.  Surrounding the castle, and winding about it like a great, sentinel serpent, is the bastion stair.  The staircase is framed by great arches of carved bone that are grasped and wound with great living veins that pump and leak gouts of blood down t
he faded steps.  Iron cages of demons, horribly mutated, hang from the arches, screeching and bellowing infernal praises to Khorne.  The stairs wind about the outer walls of the castle until they surpass its mighty pinnacle and continue into the sky until
 t
hey overhang the great northern warpgate itself.  The stairs culminate in a huge whirling cloud of gore and debris that writhes above the warpgate, leading into the closest of the gods domains in the chaos warp, the realm of Khorne.  From the last step, c
oncealed within the hurricane of gore, one could look sheer down almost 5000 feet straight into the churning black depths of the chaos warp itself.  The Ironraim castle\rquote s north side hangs over a great cliff above the sea of chaos.  Khorne\rquote 
s domain in the wa
stes has near total control of the south side of the great warp gate.  The Ironraim is as big as a large city in the empire, and its illogical iron corridors echo with screams of death and praise and sweat with the demonic heat of the beasts that lurk wit
hin.  Large open courtyards house meadows and blasphemous trees and plants of deadly poison and morbid colors.  Corpses; frail and mutated from the chaos energies that waft through the fortress, hang about the walls like moss; many still bound in rusted m
anacles.  Weapons old and new lie about the cracked floors and rest against the black walls throughout the castle.  
Outside the castle, in the miles of bloody fields between the Ironraim and the wall are hundreds of thousands of corpses stuck on pikes and poles.  Skulls litter the landscape by the thousands, and crows and
 undead carrion birds sound their shrill caws over the carnage.  The wall has many gates in its face, sliding double doors of solid stone braced by steel.
  It is through these great gates, pulled open by hordes of spawn, that powerful champions of the god walk, laden with trophies from hundreds of murders, hoping to prove themselves in the great fighting pit, the arena of Khorne, the home of the Heh-Koab, 
\ldblquote the Block\rdblquote .  In the lowest level of the great palace is an enormous gladiatorial ring; an arena where champions seek to impress Khorne by combatting each other, and ultimately challenging Heh-Koab.  The 
huge demon is a steward of Khorne on earth.  The thing appears to be a giant rectangular block of stone, with \ldblquote fossilized\rdblquote 
 imprints of hundreds of crushed bodies all over its surface.  The Block thunders slowly end over end, and releases great boulders and spheres of lava from its surface.  No champion or demon of Khorne has 
yet to knock Heh-koab on its back or tear the raised symbol of Khorne, formed from twisting black chains, from its surface.  To ac
complish such a feat would supposedly render one the most powerful follower of Khorne in the world, though as yet none have survived the test.  As the block crushes its opponents beneath it their bodies splatter blood-lusty viewers with gore as they burst
.  The howling throngs of champions and demons alike are overwhelmed with a feeling of invincibility and jovial bloodlust.  This moment is the
 closest thing to true happiness that a champion of Khorne can experience.  It is at this time that even followers of Khorne have been given to strange orgies and displays of all types of lust.  The effects wear off after a 
day, but those who see the Block in action for the first time gain +d6 attacks permanently.  
\par \pard \tab 
\par \pard \tab {\b The Block:  }This massive stone abomination is thirty feet long, fifteen feet w
ide, and seven feet high.  Its surface is covered with seeming imprints of the crushed bodies of past victims, demons and champions alike.  The Block moves by lifting itself and falling, end over end, toward its opponents.  An o
pponent caught beneath its massive weight is crushed, and all dodging attempts suffer a -50% penalty.  The \ldblquote top\rdblquote 
 side of the block has upon it a large symbol of Khorne, formed from anchored black chains.  It requires a strength greater than 10 to rip the chains from the stone, and doing so requires a whole round and a Dex test -50; during which the champion or dem
on is pelted with balls of lava and large rocks that burst from the stone\rquote s surface as though it were liquid.  D8 lava balls and d8 boulders are l
aunched each round, automatically; with a range of 100 feet.  The rocks inflict one S10 hit (BS 50 roll for each), plus require a half-Dex test or be knocked prone (taking prone damage for any remaining boulders that hit).  If a 6 is rolled for a boulder
\rquote s damage the total damage is then {\i multiplied }by 6 (don\rquote 
t roll the d6 again) as the boulder hits the opponent perfectly square, crushing him.  The balls of lava (again, BS 50 for each) inflict one S20 hit from burning, each.  They also burn through all armor
 and destroy it, even chaos armor.  If a 6 is rolled for damage of one of the lava balls the molten sphere rips right through the target, destroying it utterly.  The Block has 20 AP and is only affected by magic or chaos weapons.  It is immune to all type
s of magic other than magic weapons.  The Block regenerates d8 wounds per round.  Creatures atop it that are pulling at the chain count as {\i prone }for all boulders and lava balls that hit.
\par \pard \tab {\b M  8, WS  88%, BS  50%, S  *, T  10, W  1000, I  1%, Dex  0, Ld  89, Int  89, Cl  89
\par }\pard {\b Wp  89, Fel  0  }     {\b\f55\fs36 
\par }}