{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f1065\fnil Techno;}{\f1069\fnil NeuSerif;}{\f1152\fnil FoxTrotMedium;}{\f1191\fnil Attic;}{\f1725\fnil Sharktooth;}{\f1792\fnil SmileyFace-Two;}{\f2002\fnil MostlyWaves;}{\f2008\fnil InstantLogo;}{\f2067\fnil UrsaSerif Bold;}{\f2471\fnil Faktos;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f2535\fnil Weather Font;}{\f2739\fnil FreudFont;}{\f10840\fnil Klang MT;}{\f10890\fnil Script MT Bold;}{\f10897\fnil Old English Text MT;}{\f10909\fnil New Berolina MT;}{\f10957\fnil Bodoni MT Ultra Bold;}{\f10967\fnil Arial MT Condensed Light;}{\f11752\fnil Kramer;}{\f12956\fnil Rudelsberg;}{\f15011\fnil Gill Sans Condensed Bold;}{\f15035\fnil Van Dijk LET;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1\qj\sl360 \fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Ny standard;}}{\info{\title Orders of Sigmar}{\author Arne Dam}}\paperw11880\paperh16800\margl1133\margr1133\margt1134\margb1134\deftab709\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\headery850\footery850\cols1\colsx709\endnhere \pard\plain \s1\qc\sl360 \fs20 {\b Order of the Holy Unity\par \par }\pard \s1\qj\sl360 {\i Background} - The Order of the Holy Unity was founded in 1361 as a reaction to Grand Duchess Ottilia of Talabecland declaring herself Empress (supported by the Ulric church). Founded by Sigmariain nobles of Reikland and Stirland under the words: "One Empire, one true Emperor!" (which should of course be the one recommended by the Grand Theogonist) it dedicated itself to the maintainance of an undivided empire, so that "What Holy Sigmar himself united, shall neither Living nor Dead ever succeed in dividing!" (final words of Grand Theogonist Yorri VI's legendary sermon, 1360 IC).\par The Order almost died out during the Dark Ages but had a strong revival during Magnus the Pious' rallying of the Empire 2302-2304 and an even stronger one around 2429, when Dieter the IV was dethroned as Emperor, partly because of his incapability to deal with the upcoming secession of the Wasteland Province. The Order of the Holy Unity publicly blamed Dieter for his alleged indolence regarding the "Wasteland Heretics", and it is a well known secret that they were actively involved in the coup that deposed Dieter IV in favour of Wilhelm II, Grand Prince of Reikland. \par {\i \par Base of Operations} - Nuln, where the Order's yearly meeting is held on the first day of Sigmarzeit.\par {\i \par Outsider Oppinions} - "Never saw any of them standing guard at the Cathedral!" - Konrad M\'9fller, Knight of the Fiery Heart\par Though not hateful, the relationship between the Knights of the Holy Unity and other Templar (including the Sigmar) Orders is somewhat strained, since the Holy Knights (as they like to call themselves) consider the other knights to be riff-raff soldiers (quite far from the truth), while these see the Holy Knights as puffed-up weaklings never doing the hard work (actually, quite true - though the Holy Knights always excuse themselves with their obligations as noblemen).\par {\i \par Typical Attitude} - "Lord Ohentahl, you're nothing but an Ulrician heretic, and - hrm.. your estates are just what I have been looking for."\par The Knights of the Holy Unity are mainly devout Sigmar worshippers, though not fanatics (like the Fiery Hearts, for instance). Also, they seem to have problems distinguishing between their own political business and religious matters. \par {\i \par Requirements} - \par - The candidate must be of noble Imperial birth (preferably Reikland or Stirland)\par - The candidate must swear the following oath:\par {\i I (name) most solemnly swear before Sigmar, Unifier of the Empire and Founder of the Holy Unity, to dedicate my life to:\par \bullet  the annihilation of any threat to the Holy Unity of our Empire, be they of Human, Goblinoid or any other origin;\par \bullet  the spreading of the ever growing glory of Sigmar Heldenhammer, patron God of our Empire, and of this holy and ancient Order; \par \bullet  the protection of our right and royal Emperor, true image of Sigmar, and his rightful and legitimate successors.}\par {\i \par Symbols, Colours and Dress }- All of them being nobles, the Knights of the Holy Unity wear ornamented state-of-the-art full plate armour. On their shields their personal crest is painted inside the golden Eightsided Circle. The Order's symbol is a silver medallion with the Imperial Dragon inside the Eightsided Circle outlined in gold.\par \par {\i Notes -} Since The Knights of the Holy Unity generally spend more time on their nobleman's affairs, their Advance Scheme remains that of a noble. Should one decide to devout himself to the order (it happens, though these often join the Fiery Hearts), the Typical Knight Advance Scheme can be used.\par {\b \par }\pard \s1\qc\sl360 {\b \page Knights of the Purging Hammer\par \par }\pard \s1\qj\sl360 {\i Background - }The Purging Hammers was founded in 2304 IC by veterans from the Imperial armies fighting the Chaos Incursion. Most of them were common men from Ostland who had lost most of their families to the horrifying raids of the Chaos Bands emerging from the Forest of Shadows during the Incursion, while they themselves fought further north. Returning to misery they chose to stay together and fight the hated enemy. During the Incursion many of them had joined the Sigmar worshippers, and thus the Order joined the Church of Sigmar. {\i \par \par Base of Operations - }The Order built a fortress monastery in the town Grenzburg near the Kislevan border, where all of the approximately 40 Purging Hammers live when not raiding North or deep into the Forest of Shadows (which they often do).{\i \par \par Outsider Oppinions - }"You call them Knights?!  I'd say, they are nothing but primitive brutes! Ehrm, but never tell them, I said so, agreed?" - Ernst Geinezer, Knight of the Blazing Sun.{\i \par }Most consider the Purging Hammers to be rather primitive men, and most other Knights refuse to call the Purging Hammers true knights. On the other hand, their mastery of combat is legendary, which means that if not respected their are certainly tolerated. Fanatic Sigmar worshippers even claim, the Purging Hammers outdistance the White Wolfs, though this is not the general oppinion.{\i \par \par Typical Attitude - }"DIE, mutant scum!" - Karl, Purging Hammer\par The Purging Hammers are indeed fanatics, leaving the rest of the world behind them as they enter the Order. They are rough people, turning themselves into fighting machines, if they live so long.{\i \par \par Requirements - \par - }The candidate must grant all his wealth to the Church of Sigmar before entering the Order.\par - The candidate must show no sign of mutations what so ever.\par - The candidate must swear the following oath:\par {\i I (name) swear before Sigmar, God and Warrior, to grant my body and soul to this holy Order and uphold its doctrines:\par \bullet  to eradicate any and all taint of Chaos within the Empire and beyond;}{\b\i \par }{\i \bullet  to assist the holy Church of Sigmar in any way it may demand.\par For this I beg thy help, Oh Sigmar, until my heart beats no more.\par \par \par Symbols, Colours and Dress - }Typically being of rather modest background, the Purging Hammers normally wear battered chain-mail, though some have plated armour parts. Few use lances, instead two-handed hammers are very popular. All new knights are given a simple bronze medallion with the Hammer of Sigmar engraved upon it. The Hammer is often painted in blood red upon their shields\par {\i \par Notes - }Being pragmatic people the Purging Hammers have no scruples regarding the use of missile weapons. Actually, crossbows or used more often than not.{\i \par \par Advance Scheme - }\par Knights of the Purging Hammers\par WS+40, BS+30, S+2, T+2, W+8, I+30, A+2, Dex+20, Ld+20, Int+10, Cl+30, WP+20\par {\i Skills:} Cult Doctrine - Sigmar, Disarm, Dodge Blow, Hammer of Sigmar, Ride - Horse, Secret Language - Battle Tongue, Specialist Weapon - Two-handed, Strike Mighty Blow, Strike to Injure\par Trappings: Full Chain Mail Armour, Doublehanded Weapon (usually a hammer), Crossbow, Warhorse (with saddle and harness), Bronze Medallion (value 1 GC), {\b \par }}