{\rtf1\ansi \deff33\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Tms Rmn;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helv;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f6\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Serif;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Sans Serif;}{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times;}{\f9\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica;}
{\f10\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 System;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f12\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier 10cpi;}{\f13\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier 5cpi;}{\f14\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier 17cpi;}{\f15\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Courier PS;}
{\f16\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Draft 6cpi;}{\f17\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Draft 12cpi;}{\f18\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Prestige 6cpi;}{\f19\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Prestige 12cpi;}{\f20\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Fixedsys;}
{\f21\fmodern\fcharset255\fprq1 Terminal;}{\f22\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Small Fonts;}{\f23\fmodern\fcharset255\fprq2 Modern;}{\f24\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Dialog;}{\f25\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Dialog Light;}{\f26\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS SystemEx;}
{\f27\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Marlett;}{\f28\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}{\f29\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 MT Extra;}{\f30\fmodern\fcharset2\fprq1 MS LineDraw;}{\f31\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Bookman Old Style;}{\f32\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 ShelleyVolante BT;}
{\f33\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Palatino;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\qj \f33\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info
{\title The Ungols}{\subject Warhammer Gazetteer-Eastern Lands}{\author Garett George Lepper}{\operator N H Merrill}{\creatim\yr1996\mo2\dy9\hr15\min22}{\revtim\yr1996\mo2\dy10\hr16\min12}{\version18}{\edmins417}{\nofpages18}{\nofwords5232}
{\nofchars25501}{\vern49205}}\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1417\margr1417\margt1417\margb1417 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj \f33\fs20 
\par 
\par 
\par {\b\ul The Ungols}
\par 
\par 
\par   {\b Description
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }The Ungols or {\i Unkhol}, are the nomadic people who make up the Ungol Empire.  This Empire spans the steppes of the Far East, and is the largest Empire to exist to date.  It's borders start to the West at the Hobgoblin Hegemony 
and the Mountains of Mourn, North to the frozen tundra and uninhabited forests, to the borders of Imperial Cathay, held off by the Emperor's Wall, to the South of the Kamalayan Mountains and the princes of Indhya.
\par \pard \qj 
  They are a tough and enduring people, battling not only their environment, but their enemies, to the East, South, and West.  They believe that one day, the Great Khan will return, and lead them to final victory, when the world will be theirs.  Their arm
ies are the most seasoned and maneuverable
 in the world.  If it wasn't for the Chaos Dwarf Citadels and their Hobgoblin servants to the West, and Imperial Cathay to the East, they would be unstoppable.  But between two numerous enemies, to each side, has hindered their greater ambition.
\par \pard \qj 
  Despite their massive Empire, the culture is a nomadic one, with dispersed populations.  The men herd cattle, sheep, and goats, while the women cook and maintain the household.  They were organized around a traditional tribal and clan order, but with th
e rise of the Khans, this has changed.  
\par \pard \qj   The Ungols are loyal to each other, and often adopt special relationships.  A man is defined by his relationships with his friends, while a wife is defined by her role in the husbands household.  
\par \pard \qj 
  The Ungol are mounted archers, riding fast steeds, and firing torrents of barbed arrows at their enemy, but never close enough to engage in melee combat.  They are unparalleled horseman, and masters of the bow.  The Dolgans are closely related to the Un
gols
\par \pard \qj 
\par    {\b History 
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }The Ungols hail from the Steppe Nomads.  The Steppe Nomads have long pestered the nations of Cathay.  Over the last few centuries, they were threatened by Hobgoblin Hegemony and the Cathayan State of Chen.  The Ungols came from the nor
thern forests, and quickly drove the remaining tribes south.  Constantly embroiled in internecine warfare amongst the tribes, they amounted to little other than continual raids and bloodshed.  
\par \pard \qj   Around two hundred years ago, after a number of epic adventures, a young {\i Noyan}, known as Kenghis Khan came to power.  Uniting the Ungols amidst a great amount of bloodshed 
and massacres, he turned his people into clearing the steppes of rivals.  He drove the Hobgoblins to the Mountains of Mourn, and then turned on the Cathayan nation of Chen, a breakaway nation and rival of Imperial Cathay.
  Within a year, he had conquered the Chen, and moved beyond the Emperor's Wall, and was laying waste to Imperial Cathay.  He then turned to Indhya, leaving the battle in Imperial Cathay to his {\i Go-Ong, }
or Prince of State.  Within a few years, he had conquered Indhya.  
\par \pard \qj 
  In Cathay, the Ungols were finally repulsed.  Kenghis by this time has gone to war against the Hobgoblin Hegemony and it's Chaos Dwarf allies.  While leading a massive army that was successfully driving out the Hobgoblins and tearing apart the Chaos Dwa
rf Citadels, he reached the World's Edge Mountains.  It was here, at 63, that Kenghis died.  Returning his body to the {\i Burkan Kaldun}, his {\i Keshik}, killed every living thing that crossed 
the funeral procession.  Leaving a continent in flames behind them, they returned Kenghis' body to it's burial site.  
\par \pard \qj   After Kenghis' death, the Ungol Khans became more conservative.  They lost portions of Indhya, and never defeated the Hobgoblin
 Hegemony, which is once again threatening the Ungol Empire.  In Chen, the Ungols there are becoming more and more like the Cathayans.
\par \pard \qj   The Ungols still await for Kenghis' return.  Kenghis is predicted to return to lead his armies to victory once more.{\b 
\par 
\par   Family
\par }\pard \qj 
  The Ungol family is polygamous, with the husband allowed multiple wives.  He may marry, and keep concubines.  A heir will take over his father's wives except his own mother, who would enter the family, not as a wife, but as his mother.  Quarrels are rar
e between wives, who often work together to deal with the chores and watch over the children.  All children from wives and concubines share the same legitimacy.
\par \pard \qj   The Ungol family resides in a tent called a {\i ger}, a round tent based around a light wooden frame wra
pped in felt or hide.  Covered in grease, it was durable, resistant to water, and proof against wind and cold.  The floor is covered by a felt mat or rugs thrown over straw or dried grass.  The {\i ger}
 is always placed with the entry to the south.   Inside, it is divided into three sections.  The section to the right, or the east, is where the women cooked, slept, and took care of the children.  The section to the left, or the west, was a room for the 
husband to welcome guests.  The back section was where the husband had his couch, his chest of possessions, and a small shrine.
\par \pard \qj {\b 
\par   Gender Roles
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }
Ungol society is a patriarchal one, with the male role being a dominant one.  For the most part, women are submissive to men, and will assume typical female roles.  All women are trained to ride and fight, as this can at times be necessary.  Women who thi
nk they can prove themselves as competent as men may take a trial to become a {\i Jarghere}, or a female warrior, who is viewed as a male warrior.  Since a woman can't really f
ight, she is assumed to have adopted a male role.  These women are few, as many prefer the close knit company of women rather than the hard life made more difficult by having to put up with proving oneself to every male.
\par \pard \qj   
\par   {\b Clothing and Appearance
\par }\pard \qj 
  The Ungol men and women wear similar apparel.  The wear a long tunic garment, which is fastened across the breast.  Durable trousers are worn underneath, and they wear strong leather riding boots.  The warriors wear a leather belt upon which they attach
 quivers and bow cases.  In the cold, they wear two fur coats, one with the fur inside, and an outer layer with the fur on the outside.  To keep their head warm, they will wear fur caps.
\par \pard \qj   The men grow beards and mustaches, and often have their hair braided.
\par 
\par {\b   Trade and Economy
\par }\pard \qj {\b    }Under the guidance of the subject Cathayans, the Ungols have somewhat prospered under a revised economic policy.  Although the Ungols create very little trade, they now have a choke hold
 on all trade moving across the steppes.  Instead of raiding caravans, they now guard the caravans traveling from the Old World and Indhya to Cathay.  There is a certain amount of trade coming from the subject people.
\par \pard \qj   The Ungol Empire is fairly self sufficient, with the Ungol people having all they need, but a tidy income is brought in by their taxes on trade, crafts, and agriculture.
\par \pard \qj {\b 
\par   Religion and Magic
\par }\pard \qj   The Ungols dominant deity is an aspect of Taal, known as {\i Muguko Talgri}.  Talgri is the Everlasting Sky, the god that gave them horses and the land, and watches over them from above.   The also worship a goddess {\i Nachigai, }also
 known as {\i Itugen or Etrugen}.  The wife of Talgri, she is an aspect of Rhya, the Earthmother.  
\par   The Ungols perceive the world as one of spirits, who take an active interest in affairs.  Most are nature spirits, conscious manifestations of the natural world.  They must often be appeased to stay out of Ungol affairs.  The other cult is one of ancest
ral worship, based on the great heroes and ancestors.    All these groups have a number of shamans, and there is a toleration and acceptance for each other.  
\par   The Ungols do not seek to enforce their religious practices one their subject people. Religious
 toleration and a respect for all gods is a highly respected and practiced virtue.  It is through Ungol rulership that ? was transmitted to the East.  Many pilgrims move through the Ungol Empire between Indhya and Cathay under the protection of the Ungols
.
\par \pard \qj   {\b 
\par   Government
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }The Ungols are ruled by a Great Khan.  Underneath the Great Khan are the nobles, or {\i Noyan, }who rule over the clans and tribes in peace, and act 
as officers during war.  The Khans word is law, and defiance of his law is punishable by torture and death of the offender and his family.  
\par   The government is kept working by the {\i Yam, }or the Imperial Post, which consists of messengers on fast steeds riding circuits.
  Several parts of the Ungol administration are run by Cathayan subjects, who curb the excess and violence that the Ungols are prone to exhibit.
\par \pard \qj {\b 
\par }\pard \qj {\b   Law}
\par \pard \qj   All major laws are listed in the {\i Yasa}, a code of laws that instructs Ungols in how to treat other Ungols.  It does now apply to non-Ungols, who 
have no protection under Ungol law.  For non-Ungols, breaking Ungol law is a last fatal action one can do.
\par \pard \qj   The {\i Yasa} describes a number of laws for the Ungols to live by.  Show honor to the learned and wise
 of all people, to the righteous and innocent, and to all religions.  To love one another and to share food.  It is wrong to steal, commit adultery, to bear false testimony, or betray an Ungol.  Finally, to show compassion and spare the aged and the poor.

\par   Military law is different.  For the officers, {\i darkhan}, and the {\i noyan}, they must inspect the weapons and equipment of all their soldiers, and rectify and deficiencies or face severe punishment.  
Officers failing to attend their Khan's addresses or are unable to control and discipline their men are removed from their command.
\par \pard \qj   As for the soldiers themselves, they must respect the other men, return any dropped weapons of their fellow soldiers or suffer punishment.  To betray, abandon, or desert a fellow soldier in their {\i arban}, to plunder without permission or to
 fall asleep on their watch is punishable by execution.
\par \pard \qj   Ungol law is as hard, cruel, and demanding as the Ungol people themselves can be.
\par   
\par   {\b Military
\par }\pard \qj   The Ungol people are a martial
 group of people.  Their horsemanship, their steeds, and their bows are all parts of daily life that can be applied to military pursuits.  They have often skirmished with the goblinoids and raided Imperial Cathay.  They survive solely on their abilities a
s warriors.  Their old tribal wars were barbaric and violent, with betrayals, massacres, torturing and execution.  The Ungol people ask for no mercy and compassion, and are incapable of 
giving them either.  It is said that they are as cold and merciless as the land they originally hail from.
\par   The Ungol military were originally small tribal forces, but after Khengis Khan unified his people, they were reorganized along more formal lines.  Each group of ten men is called an {\i Arban}.  Every ten {\i Arbans} or one hundred men form a {\i Jegun}
.  Every ten {\i Jeguns} or one thousand men form a {\i Mingan}.  Every ten {\i Mingans} form a {\i Tumen}, of around ten thousand Ungols
.  The Tumens are commonly organized by Khans for attacks and raids. At any time, a Khan can raise in a short time up to 15 {\i Tumens} to defend Ungol lands, with more if greatly threatened.
\par \pard \qj   The Ungol Horse Archer is a deadly opponent, and the basic type of troop in the Ungol army.
  They act as the main body of the troops, moving quickly, firing their bows from speeding columns, always impossible to engage in melee.  When the Ungols do attack,
 it is from the Lancers or heavy cavalry who charge the weakened enemy.  The fleeing foes are then cut down by the lighter Ungol Horse Archers.  
\par \pard \qj   The best troops are organized into the {\i Keshik}
, or the elite bodyguard of the Great Khan.  The Keshik number nine thousand, the holy number of the Ungols.  They can command any group of Ungols, usurping command of the leading officers.  They are essentially a bodyguard, an elite Imperial Guard, and a
 officer's corp.  {\b 
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }The standard weapon is the Composite Bow, which shares the same characteristics as a Normal Bow, but is the size of a Short Bow.  To use it requires the Specialist Weapon Composite Bow, to be able to use the pull effectively.
  They rely on wooden shields and toughened leather jerkins to protect them.
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\b Ungol Tactics}
\par \pard \qj   The Ungols are masters at moving quickly around their enemies, and surrounding them.  They are capable of making flank and rear attacks at will.  They prefer to ambush their enemies, or cutting off elements and destroying isola
ted units.  They have the fastest moving army of the Known World.  
\par \pard \qj   Their enemies are unable to bring the Ungols to battle.  The Ungols have no large cities
, no castles or fortifications to defend, and the endless Steppes to evade their enemies in.  They are absolutely merciless.  They have no problems being cut off from their armies, having numerous steeds, able to sleep in the saddle, and living off the la
nd.  Even their appearance on a battlefield leaves the enemy to wonder if this appearance is a trap
.  The Ungols often make feints and false attacks to trick their opponents, while another unit circles around behind.  Often a fleeing Ungol unit will lead th
eir pursuers into an ambush.  Their maneuverability is almost infallible, having everywhere to flee to, and being able to attack almost anywhere.
\par \pard \qj   The largest difficulty is fighting in sieges.  They have taken many siege specialists and artillerists from Cathay, and routinely use them in siege warfare.
\par \pard \qj   The hobgoblins of the Hobgoblin Hegemony would 
appear to have an advantage over the Ungols, because of their giant wolves, which can track by scent, and are faster than the horses of the Ungols.  However, the tracking ability of the Giant Wolves is often used to lead the Wolves into a trap, since the 
Wolves are unable to reason themselves out of traps.  An overreliance
 on the tracking abilities of the Hobgoblins is the greatest weakness of the Hobgoblin invasions.  The Ungol Scouts are aware of the invaders, and will lead Ungol troops to the locations, 
while the Hobgoblins prowl about the empty steppes, seeking aimlessly for something to fight.  The speed of the Giant Wolves is negated when one realizes that the individual Ungol warrior may have up to twenty remounts!  The Giant Wolves may gradually eat
 up the distance between them, but the superior bowskill of the Ungol Horse Archer allows for him to gradually shoot the pursuers to pieces at his own leisure.  
\par \pard \qj   The Ungol will also work closely with their Shamans, and the Hobgoblins will often find while pursuing fleeing Ungols, that the earth itself will erupt, spewing forth Earth Elementals that tear the pursuers apart while the Ungol "prey" 
 cheer and give praise to the spirits.  
\par \pard \qj 
  It is the relative safety and strength of the impregnable Chaos Dwarf towers and strongholds, their numbers of the goblins, and the relative wasteland that keeps the Ungols from sweeping across into the Old World.  The siegeweapons of Cathay, while impr
essive, are worthless against Chaos Dwarf batteries.  The great numbers of goblinoids bog down the Ungols and threaten to overwhelm them.  And the environmental da
mage done by the Chaos Dwarfs make subsistence off the land for both Ungol riders and their steeds nearly impossible.
\par \pard \qj   To the East, in Imperial Cathay, the Ungols find themselve
s facing the Emperor's Wall, and the far more numerous Cathayans.  Well organized armies, backed by powerful mages, clerics, and spell casters makes any invasions or raids costly.  Once beyond the wall, the Ungols find themselves restricted to 
the roads, easily defended by the Cathayans, as the rice paddies and irrigation ditches hinder any idea of cross country movement.  Imperial Authorities are quick to flood areas and open dams if the Ungols invade.  For now, a quiet peace has evolved betwe
en the Ungols and the Emperor of Imperial Cathay.  The Ungols, did after all, rid Imperial Cathay of it's rival state...
\par \pard \qj   For now, the Ungols find themselves fighting a small crusade against the goblinoids of the Dark Lands and the Hobgoblin Hegemony.   {\b 
\par  }
\par {\b Ungol Glossary of Ideas and Words}
\par 
\par {\i anda-}a special bond between men, adopting each other as brothers.{\i 
\par Arban-}a group of ten Ungol warriors.{\i 
\par baghatur-}the elite Imperial Guard of the Khan, the first {\i Mingan} of the {\i Keshik}.{\i 
\par boal-}a drink made of honey.{\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i Burkun Kaldun-}the Sacred Mountain, where all the Great Khans, including Kenghis, are buried.  It's \tab location is secret, and everyone encountered by the funeral procession is killed to join the \tab Khans as servants in the afterlife {
\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i chen-shu-}a Cathayan word used by the Ungols to signify  frontier province forces and native garrisons \tab in the Cathayan lands under the command of Mongol Officers.{\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i darkhan-}a minor noble or freeman, entitled to keep is own possessions and kills from a hunt.  However \tab they are still to provide and assist those less advantaged than them.  Namely a social status \tab 
given to those who have helped or pleased a Khan.{\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i Etrugen-}a Ungol goddess, equivelant to Rhya.{\i 
\par ger-}a circular Ungol tent.{\i 
\par Go-ong-}Prince of State.  A position held by the Great Khan's most trusted assistant.{\i 
\par Jegun-}a group of ten {\i Arbans}, of one hundred soldiers.{\i 
\par kalan-}taxes on agriculture, usually applied to rice and grain farmers in subject Cathay.{\i 
\par Kam-}Shamans who are the intermediaries between the gods and spirits on behalf of the Ungols.{\i 
\par Kara'ul-
\par }\pard \qj {\i Keshik-}the elite bodyguard of the great Khan, numbering in Mingans the sacred number of nine.  Men \tab of great authority, and fierce warriors.
\par {\i Khan-}a great leader of Ungol people.  There may be up to half a dozen, lead by the {\i Great Khan}, the \tab greatest of Khan's, nominated by his predecessor.{\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i kopchur-}taxes on nomads, herds, and cattle breeders.{\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i kumiss}-an alcoholic drink made of fermented mare's milk.  Drank by the Ungols for pleasure and \tab religious reasons.  {\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i korchi-}Quiver bearers, or personal assistants.{\i 
\par kubi-}a steppe fief controlled by a loyal {\i Noyan.
\par kuriltai-}a general assembly of chieftains and {\i Noyat}.{\i 
\par Mingan-}ten {\i Jengun}, one thousand Ungol soldiers.
\par {\i Nachigai-
\par }\pard \qj {\i Nokut-}loyal and dedicated followers and supporters of a {\i Noyan} or a {\i Khan}.  Fanatically loyal, and \tab highly valued by their masters.  Singular: {\i Nokur}.{\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i Noyan-}a Ungol Prince.{\i 
\par Noyat-}Ungol nobles{\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i Paitze-}a tablet of authority, used by the riders of the {\i Yam}, to pass safely and requisition goods or \tab mounts.{\i 
\par sui-wei-}a Cathayan word used by the Ungols to describe the best of Ungol troops and the best foreign \tab troops deemed reliable. {\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i Sulde-}guardian spirits summoned to watch over the Ungol warriors.{\i 
\par Taniga-}tax on merchants and craftsmen.{\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i Tuk-}a standard.  The {\i Sacred Tuk of Kenghis}, the pole, with nine white yak tails is alleged to house his \tab soul or spirit, and is used by a Great Khan when leading the {\i Keshik}.{\i 
\par }\pard \qj {\i ulu-}province or fief, formerly used to denote tribal lands on the steppes.
\par {\i Yam-}the Imperial Post, or mounted messengers used to communicate over the Khan's Empire.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par {\b Ungol Characteristics}
\par \pard \qj   The Ungol are varied from other humans.  Their tough existence and time in the saddle makes them a durable people.  However, their short legs, bowed out from time in the saddle, make them awkward when running.
\par \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj {\b M\tab }d2+2{\b 
\par WS\tab }2d10+20
\par {\b BS}\tab 2d10+20{\b 
\par S}\tab d3+1{\b 
\par T\tab }d3+2
\par {\b W}\tab d3+4{\b 
\par I\tab }2d10+20{\b 
\par A\tab }1{\b \tab 
\par Dex}\tab 2d10+20{\b 
\par Ld  }\tab 2d10+20{\b 
\par Int\tab }2d10+20{\b 
\par Cl \tab }2d10+20{\b 
\par WP\tab }2d10+20{\b 
\par Fel}\tab 2d10+20
\par \pard \qj 
\par {\b UNGOLS
\par }Speak: Ungol
\par Night Vision: Zero
\par Alignment: Neutral
\par Height:\tab Male 5' + d10"
\par \tab Female 4' 8" + d10"
\par Psychology: No special psychology rules.
\par 
\par {\b AGE}
\par   Use the age chart for Humans.
\par 
\par {\b CAREER CLASSES
\par }\pard \qj {\b  }  Unless the character has an Int of 30 or more, they must have a first career must be Ungol Horse Warrior.  
\par \pard \qj 
\par {\b SKILL CHARTS
\par 
\par Ungol Skill Chart}
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph107\trleft-107 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf15 \cellx1027\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf15 \cellx5288 \pard \qc\intbl Roll\cell \pard \intbl Skill Title\cell \pard \intbl \row 
\trowd \trgaph107\trleft-107 \cellx1027\cellx5288 \pard \qc\intbl 01-05\cell \pard \intbl Acute Hearing\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 06-10\cell \pard \intbl Ambidextrous\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 11-15\cell \pard \intbl Animal Care
\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 16-20\cell \pard \intbl Astronomy\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 21-25\cell \pard \intbl Brewing\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 26-30\cell \pard \intbl Cook\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 
31-35\cell \pard \intbl Dance\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 36-40\cell \pard \intbl Dodge Blow\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 41-45\cell \pard \intbl Drive Cart\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 46-50\cell \pard \intbl 
Excellent Vision\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 51-55\cell \pard \intbl Game Hunting\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 56-60\cell \pard \intbl Lightning Reflexes\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 61-65\cell \pard \intbl Luck\cell \pard 
\intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 66-70\cell \pard \intbl Night Vision\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 71-75\cell \pard \intbl Orientation\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 76-80\cell \pard \intbl Read/Write\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 
81-85\cell \pard \intbl Sing\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 86-90\cell \pard \intbl Sixth Sense\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 91-95\cell \pard \intbl Very Resilient\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph107\trleft-107 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \cellx1027\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \cellx5288 \pard \qc\intbl 96-100\cell \pard \intbl Very Strong\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj {\b 
\par }\pard \qj {\b 
\par Ungol Academic Table}
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph107\trleft-107 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf15 \cellx1027\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf15 \cellx4996 \pard \qc\intbl {\b Roll\cell }\pard \intbl {\b Career}\cell \pard \intbl 
\row \trowd \trgaph107\trleft-107 \cellx1027\cellx4996 \pard \qc\intbl 01-25\cell \pard \intbl Herbalist\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 26-35\cell \pard \intbl Physician's Student\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 36-45\cell \pard \intbl 
Scribe\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 46-65\cell \pard \intbl Seer\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph107\trleft-107 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \cellx1027\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf15 \cellx4996 \pard \qc\intbl 66-100\cell \pard \intbl 
Shaman's Apprentice\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj 
\par {\b\ul Mongol Careers}
\par 
\par Advisor
\par Artillerist
\par Artisan
\par Bounty Hunter
\par Caravaneer
\par Entertainer
\par Exciseman
\par Herbalist
\par Hunter*
\par Khan
\par Khesik
\par Mercenary
\par Noyan
\par Pedlar
\par Physician
\par Physician's Student
\par Sapper
\par Scribe
\par Seer
\par Shaman
\par Shaman's Apprentice
\par Trader
\par Ungol Bowmaster*
\par Ungol Domestic Servant
\par Ungol Horse Archer*
\par Ungol Horselord*
\par Ungol Lancer*
\par Ungol Messenger*
\par Ungol Officer*
\par Ungol Scout*
\par Ungol Signal Rider*
\par 
\par   * indicates a Ungol Warrior Career
\par 
\par   {\b Ungol Warrior Career Trappings}
\par \pard \qj   All Ungol Warrior start off with d3 horses, and a saddle. They also start off with two bows, a compound bow 
for use on foot, and another for use on a horse.  Two quivers, holding 30 arrow each.  Two types of arrows, light long range arrows, and heavy short range arrows.  A sword and light sabre.  A conical steel cap, lined with fur, and a jerkin of lacquered
 leather, and a unrimmed shield.  They are also given a hatchet, file for arrows, an awl, fish hooks and a line, tow rope, iron cooking pot, two leather bottles, one filled with water, the other with {\i kumiss}
, a fur cap, and a sheepskin coat.  They are also given a weeks rations of dried meat and cheese.  They start off with 1d6 gold pieces.
\par \pard \qj   
\par 
\par {\b\ul CAREER DESCRIPTIONS}
\par 
\par 
\par {\b ADVISOR}
\par \pard \qj    Advisors are wise men trusted by the Khans and Noyans.  Not all advisors are Ungol, many are from subject people, who are experts in their fields.
\par \pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +4\cell +20\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +20\cell +30\cell +20
\cell +20\cell +30\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par   {\b Skills
\par }Charm
\par \pard \qj Dynastic Knowledge
\par History
\par Read/Write
\par Theology
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par A {\i ger}
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Non-Ungol Academic Careers
\par Kama (Shaman)
\par Keshik
\par Noyan
\par {\b 
\par   Career Exits}
\par Up to the GMs approval
\par 
\par 
\par {\b ARTILLERIST
\par   }Artillerist are either from Cathayan subjects, or trained by them.  
\par {\b 
\par   Skills}
\par Add Drive Cart
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par Cart
\par Draft Horse
\par Riding Horse
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Any non-Ungol Warrior Career
\par Any Ungol Warrior Career
\par  {\b 
\par   Career Exits}
\par Advisor
\par Any Ungol Warrior Career for anyone who entered this career through an Ungol career
\par Sapper
\par 
\par 
\par {\b ARTISAN}
\par {\b   }The Ungol rely heavily on Artisans, who can be women, subject people, or retired warriors.
\par {\b 
\par   Skills}
\par Add Drive Cart
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par In addition to regular trappings:
\par   Horse
\par   Small {\i Ger}
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Any
\par {\b  
\par   Career Exits}
\par Up to the GMs approval
\par {\b 
\par 
\par BOUNTY HUNTER}
\par \pard \qj   The Bounty Hunter is a Ungol who has left his tribe, and now works as a hunter of men.  No longer accepted by his comrades, he must operate outside of Ungol society.
\par \pard \qj 
\par {\b   Skills}
\par No Silent Move Urban
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par No Chainmail Shirt
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par  }Any Ungol Warrior Career
\par {\b 
\par   Career Exits}
\par Any Basic Rogue Career
\par Any exit listed under Bounty Hunter in the WFRP rulebook
\par 
\par 
\par {\b CARAVANEER}
\par   Caravaneers are retired Ungols, or Ungols who no longer serve in the Ungol hordes, and instead assist in trade.
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell +1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell -\cell -\cell +10\cell +10
\cell -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Animal Care
\par Drive Cart
\par Haggle
\par Specialist Weapon Scourge
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Any Ungol Warrior Career
\par {\b  
\par   Career Exits}
\par Any non-Ungol Basic Warrior or Ranger Career
\par Pedlar
\par 
\par 
\par {\b ENTERTAINER}
\par \pard \qj   There are a few wandering
 Entertainers, who present themselves to the Khan or tribes for an evenings pleasure.  Although not highly respected, they are welcome for the entertainment they bring with them.  They are often orphans or people with no tribe.
\par \pard \qj   The following are the type of entertainers available:
\par \pard \qj   Acrobat, Dancer (one with Dance skill), Fortune Teller, Juggler, Knife Thrower, Poet, Singer, Story Teller (one with Story Telling skill), Troubadour, and Wrestler. 
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par {\b EXCISEMEN}
\par   Excisemen are the trusted servants of the Khans and Noyut who monitor the trade and commerce, and are responsible for taxation.  They are very powerful but fair.
\par 
\par   {\b Skills}
\par Add Speak Additional Language and Law
\par Remove any chance for Embezzlement
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par Add d6 Guards
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Any Ungol Warrior Career
\par {\b 
\par   Career Exits}
\par Advisor
\par Trader
\par 
\par 
\par {\b HERBALIST}
\par   Herbalists are the traditional healers of Ungol society.  
\par 
\par {\b   Skills}
\par Remove Arcane Language Druidic, Read/Write, and Secret Languages Classical and Guilder.
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par Add horse
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Any Ungol Warrior Career
\par Hunter
\par Kama
\par Ungol Domestic Servant
\par {\b 
\par  
\par   Career Exits}
\par Advisor
\par Pedlar
\par Physician
\par Seer
\par Kama's Apprentice (Shaman's Apprentice)
\par 
\par 
\par {\b HUNTER}
\par   The Hunters fulfill an important role in Ungol society, carrying on the traditional way of life.
\par 
\par   {\b Skills}
\par Add Fishing
\par Remove Secret Language Ranger and replace with Secret Language Ungol
\par Remove Secret Signs-Woodsman and replace with Secret Signs Ungol Scout
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par Add d3 horses
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Any Ungol Warrior Career
\par {\b  
\par   Career Exits}
\par Herbalist
\par Messenger
\par Ungol Scout
\par 
\par 
\par {\b KHAN
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }The Khan is a great leader of the Ungols.  His word is law.  They rule over numerous Khanates, and enforce control through their military troops and the loyalty of their {\i Nokut} and {\i Anda}
.  The only person as powerful than them are other Khans, and the Great Khan has complete control over the Khans.
\par \pard \qj {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +40\cell +40\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +8\cell +40\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +40\cell +20\cell 
+40\cell +30\cell +40\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Charm
\par Dynastic Knowledge-Ungol Clans
\par Heraldry-Ungol
\par Influence
\par Intimidate
\par Law-Ungol ({\i Yasa})
\par Public Speaking
\par Tactics
\par Wit
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par Large{\i  Ger}
\par Wives, concubines, slaves
\par 10d10 guards-{\i Anda, Nokut}
\par d10 Herds of Cattle, Sheep
\par 5d10 additional horses
\par Loyalty of d10 Noyans
\par Command of d10 {\i Mingans}
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Advisor
\par Keshik
\par Noyan
\par {\b 
\par   Career Exits}
\par Nil
\par 
\par 
\par {\b KESHIK
\par }\pard \qj   The Keshik are the bravest, most loyal, and finest warriors the Ungols can muster.  They serve as the Honor Guard of the Great Khan.  They number nine thousand, or nine {\i Mingen}.  Any {\i Keshik }
may take over the command of any Ungol officer.  They are bodyguards, elite cavalry, and an officer corp.  Many great {\i Keshik} are honored to become {\i Darkhan}, and the greatest may become {\i Noyans }or even {\i Khans.}
\par \pard \qj {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +1\cell +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +6\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell +20\cell +10\cell +20
\cell +10\cell \cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills
\par }Dodge Blow
\par Intimidate
\par Secret Language Ungol Battle
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par Strike to Injure
\par Strike to Stun
\par Specialist Weapon Two Handed
\par Tactics
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par d6 additional Horses
\par Two-handed Sword
\par Sword
\par Mail Shirt
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Any Ungol Warrior Career (with GM's approval){\b 
\par 
\par   Career Exits}
\par Advisor
\par Noyan
\par 
\par 
\par {\b MERCENARY}
\par   A Mercenary is usually an Ungol who has turned his back on Ungol society, and sought employment within Imperial Cathay, Indhya, or the Old World.  Their betrayal is punishable by death.
\par 
\par {\b   Skills}
\par Remove Secret Language Battle Tongue
\par Add Intimidate and Haggle
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Any Ungol Warrior
\par {\b  
\par   Career Exits}
\par Any Basic Warrior Career (in Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay Book)
\par 
\par 
\par {\b NOYAN}
\par \pard \qj   The Noyan are the nobility of the Ungol, who have attained their position based on their lineage and their skill in combat.  They rule over the remaining tribes, and lead the Ungol troops into battle.  
\par \pard \qj {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl - \cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +4\cell +20\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell +30\cell +20\cell +20
\cell +10\cell +20\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj {\b 
\par }\pard \qj {\b   Skills}
\par Charm
\par Gamble
\par Influence
\par Intimidate
\par Tactics
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par 2d10 additional horses
\par d5 herds of cattle, horses, or sheep
\par Large {\i ger}
\par d10 guards ({\i Anda, Nokut})
\par A few wives, concubines
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Keshik
\par Ungol Bowmaster
\par Ungol Horselord
\par Ungol Lancer
\par {\b 
\par   Career Exits}
\par Advisor
\par Khan
\par 
\par 
\par {\b PEDLAR
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }Pedlars are outcasts in Ungol society, men who aren't men, who can't fight, or are cowards.  They are however necessary, and are tolerated.
\par \pard \qj 
\par {\b 
\par PHYSICIAN
\par   }Physicians are Cathayan trained professionals, who serve the Ungol army and nobility.
\par 
\par {\b   Career Entries}
\par Physician's Student
\par 
\par   {\b Career Exits}
\par Advisor
\par Any non-Ungol Basic Academic Career
\par {\b 
\par 
\par PHYSICIAN'S STUDENT
\par }\pard \qj   Physician's Students are either Cathayans or Cathayan trained Ungols, who assist Physicians and learn the trade.
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\b Career Entries}
\par Initial Career Only
\par  
\par   {\b Career Exits}
\par Physician
\par 
\par 
\par {\b SAPPER
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }Sappers are not a traditional Ungol career, but one that the Ungols have picked up from the Cathayans during warfare.  They are highly valued, despite their untraditional role.
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\b Career Entries}
\par Any Cathayan Basic Warrior Career
\par Any Ungol Basic Warrior Career
\par Artillerist
\par {\b 
\par   Career Exits}
\par Artillerist
\par Mercenary
\par {\b 
\par 
\par SCRIBE
\par   }Scribes are essential to the Ungol people, who are largely illiterate. 
\par 
\par   {\b Skills}
\par Remove Arcane Language Magick and Secret Language Classical
\par Automatic chance at Speak Additional Language
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries}
\par Initial Career Only
\par 
\par   {\b Career Exits}
\par Advisor
\par Exciseman
\par Trader
\par {\b 
\par 
\par SEER}
\par \pard \qj   Seers play an important role, like the Kamas, using their abilities to speak with spirits and learn of the future.  They are greatly revered despite their eccentricities.
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }?
\par 
\par   {\b Career Exits}
\par Advisor
\par Kama's Assistant
\par 
\par {\b TRADER
\par }\pard \qj   Trader's are viewed better than Pedlars, as men engaging in trade, increasing the wealth of the Ungol people.
\par \pard \qj 
\par {\b   Career Entries}
\par Pedlar
\par Scribe
\par 
\par   {\b Career Exits}
\par Advisor
\par Exciseman
\par Merchant (Non-Ungol Career)
\par 
\par 
\par {\b UNGOL BOWMASTER
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }The Ungol Bowmaster is the fines bowman that the Ungol's can muster, and often lead assaults using their incredible marksmanship to slay their enemies.
\par \pard \qj {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +1\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +6\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell -\cell \pard 
\qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell -\cell -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Animal Care
\par Excellent Vision
\par Marksmanship
\par Specialist Weapon Compound Bow
\par Trick Riding
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par Two additional quivers of arrows
\par Extra Compound Bow
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Ungol Horse Archer
\par {\b  
\par   Career Exits}
\par Keshik
\par Ungol Horselord
\par Ungol Lancer
\par {\b 
\par 
\par UNGOL DOMESTIC SERVANT}
\par \pard \qj   The Ungol Domestic Servant is the Ungol wife who provides many of the more important yet mundane roles in Ungol society.
\par \pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell -\cell -\cell -\cell -
\cell -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Brewing
\par Cooking
\par Drive Cart
\par Tailor
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par Small {\i ger}
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Initial Career Only
\par {\b  
\par   Career Exits
\par }Artisan 
\par 
\par 
\par {\b UNGOL HORSE ARCHER}
\par   The Ungol Horse Archer is the soldier that won the Ungol Empire.  Fast, tough, and fierce in combat, they strike fear in their enemies.  Masters at hit and run tactics and ambushes, they are a nearly indomitable foe. 
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +20\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell +1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +10\cell -\cell +10
\cell -\cell -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Animal Care
\par Consume Alcohol
\par Gamble
\par Specialist Weapon: Compound Bow
\par Riding
\par Secret Language Ungol Battle
\par Trick Riding
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par additional horse
\par  
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Initial Starting Career Only{\b  
\par 
\par   Career Exits
\par }Any Ungol Warrior Career
\par 
\par 
\par {\b UNGOL HORSELORD
\par   }The Ungol Horselord is an Ungol with an incredible affinity for their beasts, and raise and care for the finest steeds.  The animals are drawn to them, and they are easily trained by these highly revered individuals.{\b 
\par 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl +1\cell +1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +4\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20 \cell -\cell +10\cell +10
\cell +10\cell -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Acrobatics
\par Animal Care
\par Animal Training
\par Charm Animal-Horse
\par Evaluate
\par Haggle
\par Ride
\par Specialist Weapon Horse Noose
\par Trick Riding
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par Horse Noose
\par 2d10 horses
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Ungol Bowmaster
\par Ungol Horse Archer
\par Ungol Lancer
\par Ungol Messenger
\par {\b 
\par   Career Exits}
\par Keshik
\par Trader
\par Ungol Lancer
\par 
\par 
\par {\b UNGOL LANCER
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }The Ungol Lancer is the finest cavalry the Ungols can muster.  Mounted on the strongest steeds, wielding lances, they will charge the weakened enemy and drive them from the field of battle.
  With the exception of the Keshik, this is the most highly esteemed position to hold in the Ungol army.
\par \pard \qj {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +1\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +6\cell +20\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +20\cell -\cell +20
\cell -\cell -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Animal Care
\par Dodge Blow
\par Secret Language Ungol Battle
\par Specialist Weapon Lance
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par Strike to Injure
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par d3 additional horses
\par Lance
\par Mail Shirt
\par Rimmed Shield
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Ungol Bowmaster
\par Ungol Horse Archer
\par Ungol Horselord{\b  
\par 
\par   Career Exits}
\par Keshik
\par Ungol Horselord
\par 
\par 
\par {\b UNGOL MESSENGER}
\par \pard \qj   The Ungol Messengers act as envoys between the fasting moving columns of Ungol troops, and also fulfill roles in the {\i Yama}, or Imperial Post.
\par \pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell +1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +4\cell +20\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell +20\cell +10\cell +20
\cell +20\cell -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Follow Trail
\par Heraldry Ungol
\par Orientation
\par Secret Signs Ungol Scout
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par d3 horses
\par {\i Paitze}
\par Water bottle
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Ungol Horse Archer
\par Ungol Signal Rider
\par {\b  
\par   Career Exits
\par }Ungol Horselord
\par Ungol Scout{\b 
\par }Ungol Signal Rider
\par 
\par 
\par {\b UNGOL OFFICER
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }The Ungol Officer is usually a minor noble or a well liked soldier who commands either a {\i Arban, }or a {\i Jegun}
.  They will often, if successful, be elevated to a higher status.  The Ungol Officer is never the toughest soldier in his troop, for then he would never know the suffering his troops must go through.
\par \pard \qj {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +20\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +4\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +30\cell +20\cell +30
\cell +20\cell +20\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Disarm
\par Heraldry-Ungol
\par Orientation
\par Secret Language Ungol Battle
\par Secret Signs Ungol Signals
\par Tactics
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par d6 additional horses
\par Mail shirt
\par Rimmed shield
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Ungol Horse Archer
\par Ungol Lancer
\par {\b  
\par   Career Exits}
\par Keshik
\par Ungol Lancer
\par 
\par 
\par {\b UNGOL SCOUT
\par }\pard \qj {\b   }The Ungol Scouts are the eyes and ears of the Ungol Hordes.  The Ungol Scout is almost never detected by the enemy, unless it is to lead the enemy into a carefully prepared ambush.
\par \pard \qj {\b 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +20\cell \pard \qc\intbl +1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +6\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +10
\cell +10\cell +20\cell +10\cell -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Animal Care
\par Concealment Rural
\par Follow Trail
\par Orientation
\par Secret Language Ungol Ranger
\par Secret Signs Ungol Scout
\par Silent Move Rural
\par Spot Traps
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par d3 additional horses
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Ungol Horse Archer
\par Ungol Horselord
\par Ungol Messenger
\par {\b  
\par   Career Exits}
\par Keshik
\par Ungol Horselord
\par 
\par 
\par {\b UNGOL SIGNAL RIDER
\par }\pard \qj   The Ungol Signal Rider assists the Ungol Officers, Noyans and Khans in communicating in a battle.  By using drums and signal flags by day, and torches by night, they communicate between columns, organizing attacks and retreats.
\par \pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl {\b M\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S\cell T\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b A\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx468
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1128\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1788\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2364\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2940\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3600\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4260\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4836\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5496\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6156\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6816\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7476\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8136\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8796 \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10 \cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell +20\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +20\cell +20\cell -
\cell -\cell -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Skills}
\par Excellent Vision
\par Heraldry-Ungol
\par Musicianship-Kettle Drum
\par Secret Signs {\i Ungol Signals}
\par 
\par   {\b Trappings}
\par d3 Horses
\par Signal Flags
\par Torches
\par Flint
\par Kettle Drum
\par 
\par   {\b Career Entries
\par }Ungol Horse Archer
\par Ungol Messenger
\par Ungol Scout
\par {\b  
\par   Career Exits}
\par Ungol Messenger
\par Ungol Officer
\par {\b 
\par }
\par {\b\ul Ungol Skills}
\par 
\par   {\b Dynastic Knowledge-Ungol}
\par   {\b Heraldry-Ungol
\par }\pard \qj {\b   Law-Ungol (}{\b\i Yasa}{\b ) 
\par }\pard \qj {\b   Secret Language-Ungol Battle
\par   Secret Language Ungol Ranger
\par   Secret Signs Ungol Scout
\par   Secret Signs Ungol Signals
\par   Specialist Weapon-Composite Bow
\par   Specialist Weapon-Horse Noose
\par   
\par 
\par 
\par }
\par 
\par 
\par {\b Magic in the Ungol Lands}
\par \pard \qj   The rules for magic in the Ungol lands are best suited for the Realms of Traditional Magic.  The Ungols have Ancestral ( the Cult of the Great Khan), Elemental, Nature Spirit, and Totemic (Horse) Worship.
\par \pard \qj   If one is not using the Traditional Magic rules, then use the Taal Cult description in the WFRP Rulebook, and allow Ungol Shamans a Spirit Familiar of a Horse (as per Old Faith).  The Spirit Familiar is allowed to join with the Kama's
 or Shaman's Horse.  The Horse then acts an unencumbered even if loaded to it's encumbrance limit.  The horse takes only half damage from non-magical weapons, and has it's endurance doubled.  The horse uses the Spirit's Intelligence and Will Power.
  If the horse dies, the Spirit Familiar is expelled, and may not join another horse for a day
.  If the horse is killed by a magical weapon, the Familiar is killed, and the Kama must do penance to regain any powers back.  The Familiar may leave the horse at any time the Kama commands.
\par \pard \qj     The other Ungol cult for those not using the Traditional Magic supplement is the worship of Rhya.
\par \pard \qj   The Ungols have a few Wizards and Elementalists, but these are few and far between, and are considered Kama by the less knowledgeable Ungols.  The player will most likely be a Kama of one of the above mentioned Cults.
\par \pard \qj 
\par {\b SHAMAN (KAMA)
\par }
\par   Use the rules for Clerics or Wizards.
\par 
\par {\b SHAMAN'S APPRENTICE (KAMA'S ASSISTANT)}
\par 
\par   Use the rules for Initiates and Wizard's Apprentice.
\par 
\par 
\par {\b\ul Traditional Ungol Names (Male)}
\par 
\par Arik-Boge
\par Asikapa
\par Baiju
\par Batu
\par Bayan
\par Bortei
\par Boru
\par Buyantu
\par Chiluku
\par Chingis
\par Chormagen
\par Gaimesh
\par Guchluk
\par Guyuk
\par Hulegu
\par Inalchik
\par Jaghatai
\par Jaghatal
\par Jamuka
\par Jebe
\par Jelme
\par Jochi
\par Kadan
\par Kaida
\par Kamala
\par Ketboge
\par Khaishan
\par Khasan
\par Khengis
\par Kubilai
\par Kushela
\par Kutuku
\par Mukali
\par Nogal
\par Ogodei
\par Ogul
\par Sengum
\par Shigi
\par Shiramun
\par Subudei
\par Sudhapala
\par Sugeta
\par Tayang
\par Temuge
\par Temujin
\par Temur
\par Togh
\par Toghrul
\par Uriagkhadai
\par Yesugai
\par Yesun
\par Yusegai
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj 
\par }