{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f56\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Monotype Corsiva{\*\falt ZapfChancery};}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar \f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Combat Monks}{\author Preferred Customer}
{\operator Datalab Bygg 4 Niv\'e5 4}{\creatim\yr1995\mo12\dy8\hr18\min28}{\revtim\yr1996\mo3\dy1\hr15\min17}{\version4}{\edmins9}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords1097}{\nofchars6257}{\*\company HF-EDB, NTNU}{\vern57435}}\margl1417\margr1417\margt1417\margb1417 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\widctlpar \f4\fs20 {
\b\f56\fs36 
\par Combat Monks
\par }\pard \widctlpar 
\par \pard \widctlpar \tab The ideas behind this character class for WFRP comes from the lack of the martial artist type of character so many other RP\rquote s include.  Though I daresay, my original intent was to transform one of my most powerful NPC\rquote 
s to godling status (t
hus, eliminating him from play, but not from the game entirely).  I called him Aldred, and he began as a simple protagonist...he held a deep belief that through constant practice with his sword (a wholly unremarkable Estalian broadsword), he could untap t
he secrets of the universe, and that when he became \lquote one\rquote  with his weapon, he would reach \lquote enlightenment\rquote  and transcend the  mortal consciousness...(so what, its not realistic...this {\i is}
 fantasy...).  Anyway, as he progressed through many adventurers he began to realize that it wasn\rquote 
t his sword and his body that were becoming aligned, but in fact, it was his mind and body performing in harmony.  Eventually, he abandoned man-made weaponry altogether and only fought using his body and his mind.  When Aldred ac
tually reached enlightenment, it is rumored that he could levitate his body while meditating, could deflect arrows in mid-flight, kill with a touch, and do battle with beings from other planes of existence.  As he gained followers from other faiths who so
ug
ht to attain the level of inner serenity that Aldred had he settled down at a small monastery in the mountains to teach for the rest of his days.  It was here that a member of the Sigmar cult (believing that Aldred had gained favors from The Chaos gods) a
ssasinated Aldred by poisoning his food at a summer festival.  Instead of dissuading followers of Aldred it actually encouraged his worship as a deity.  It is a commonly held belief that he never actually died, but that Aldred had reached a state of enlig
htenment at which he no longer needed his physical body and simply cast it off to ascend to heaven...or nirvana...or whatever.
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par NOTES:
\par \pard \widctlpar \tab 
To become a Sword Brother of Aldred, players must first complete one Warrior class career, and then the Initiate basic career.  After exiting Initiate, the player must roll on the Cleric Advancement Table on page 150 of WHRP.  If they successfully advanc
e, Aldred will guide them in the next leg of their journey towards enlightenment.
\par \pard \widctlpar \tab Combat Monks (as they will be called from here on out) must follow certain strictures and never gain spells as such, but do gain certain abilities upon reaching different levels of enlightenment.
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par \pard \widctlpar {\b Combat Monk - Level 1                                                                    Advance Scheme
\par  M      WS      BS      S      T      W      I      A      DEX      LD      INT      CL      WP      FEL
\par           +10                                  +2    +10  +1        +10                              +10     +10
\par 
\par SKILLS: Meditate, Street Fighter, Strike Mighty Blow, Dodge Blow*,  Philosophy, plus one Lore
\par STRICTURES:  Must no longer use ballistic implements of war (i.e. bows, crossbows, etc.).
\par SPECIAL ABILITIES: Levitation during meditation (no real value, but characters dig it.)
\par                                             Dodge Multiple Blows- For each attack not used by the monk during the
\par                                                                                       round he/she may dodge another incoming attack.  
\par 
\par Combat Monk - Level 2                                                                    Advance Scheme
\par  M      WS      BS      S      T      W      I      A      DEX      LD      INT      CL      WP      FEL                             
\par +1     +20                 +1    +1    +3     +20  +2        +10                  +10     +10     +20
\par 
\par SKILLS: Magic Sense, Strike to Stun, Strike to Injure,  Disarm*, Acrobatics*,  plus one Lore 
\par STRICTURES: Must no longer wear any type of armor
\par SPECIAL ABILITIES: Unarmed Disarm: may attempt to disarm foe by using their Street Fighter 
\par                                                                              skill.
\par                                             Acrobatic Combat: may use Acrobatics during combat (award exp points  
\par                                                                                 to characters who use fantastic moves during combat) 
\par 
\par Combat Monk - Level 3                                                                    Advance Scheme
\par  M      WS      BS      S      T      W      I      A      DEX      LD      INT      CL      WP      FEL
\par +1      +30                +1    +2    +5    +20   +3       +20                   +20     +20     +30
\par 
\par SKILLS: Magical Awareness, Ambidexterous,  Sixth Sense,  plus one Lore based skill
\par STRICTURES: May no longer use any weapons other than their one sword (in honor of
\par                              the sword Aldred began with. ) It is now more honorable to fight without benefit
\par                              of any weapons for the Combat Monk.
\par SPECIAL ABILITIES: Deflect Missles: The Monk may use his Dodge Blow* skill to attempt to 
\par                                                                         dodge incoming arrows and other normal missles.  A  
\par }\pard \widctlpar {\b                                                                         successful dodge may be upgraded to a \lquote catch\rquote  if the \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Monk wishes to make an immediate DEX test. (note: \tab \tab 
\tab \tab \tab \tab failure to make said test means that the Monk still succeeds \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab at dodging just doesn\rquote t manage to catch it on its way by).
\par }\pard \widctlpar {\b 
\par \tab \tab              Focus Power: Once per day the Monk may summon his total power into
\par }\pard \widctlpar {\b                                                                      \tab an unarmed strike that counts as a S 10 hit.  A failed WS \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab roll does not expend this ability, however.  The monk must \tab \tab 
\tab \tab \tab \tab state when he is going to use this ability in advance of the \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab attack.   
\par }\pard \widctlpar {\b                                                                      \tab All other damage modifiers still apply.
\par 
\par 
\par Combat Monk - Level 4                                                                    Advance Scheme
\par  M      WS      BS      S      T      W      I      A      DEX       LD      INT      CL      WP     FEL
\par +1      +40                +2    +2     +7    +30   +3      +30                    +30     +30     +30      
\par 
\par SKILLS: Contortionist, Acute Hearing, Excellent Vision, Night Vision,  Public Speaking, 
\par                   plus one additional Lore skill.
\par STRICTURES: Must no longer use any weapons other than the Monks own physical body.
\par                              Combat monks may still keep their sword to use for practice and other rites.
\par SPECIAL ABILITIES:  Extended Focus: Monk may use Focus Power 3 times per day.
\par 
\par                                             Enchanted Body: Monk may now score hits on creatures that can
\par                                                                            only be struck by magic weapons.   He now counts
\par                                                                            as a magic weapon. (always)
\par                                             Sword of Aldred:  The Combat Monk may use his sword like a holy symbol 
\par }\pard \widctlpar {\b                                                                             to ward of undead, demons and the like, as it is infused \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab      by his unshakeable faith. (use of this is limited to GM 
\par }\pard \widctlpar {\b                                                                             discretion of course).
\par 
\par }\pard \widctlpar Feel free to alter and use any, all ,or none of this stuff for character generation in your campaigns.  I hope it works as well for your players as for mine...
\par \pard \widctlpar                                                                            ...Aldred{\b\f56\fs36 
\par }}