{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Tms Rmn;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helv;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f6\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Serif;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Sans Serif;}{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times;}{\f9\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica;}
{\f10\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 System;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 New York;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Geneva;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Marlett;}{\f15\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 MT Extra;}{\f17\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}{\f18\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Black;}{\f19\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Rounded MT Bold;}{\f20\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Book Antiqua;}
{\f21\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Bookman Old Style;}{\f22\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Century Schoolbook;}{\f23\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Monotype Sorts;}{\f24\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Haettenschweiler;}{\f25\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Algerian;}
{\f26\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Braggadocio;}{\f27\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Britannic Bold;}{\f28\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Brush Script MT;}{\f29\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Colonna MT;}{\f30\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Desdemona;}
{\f31\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Footlight MT Light;}{\f32\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Garamond;}{\f33\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Impact;}{\f34\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Kino MT;}{\f35\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Wide Latin;}
{\f36\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Matura MT Script Capitals;}{\f37\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Playbill;}{\f38\fmodern\fcharset2\fprq1 MS LineDraw;}{\f39\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Century Gothic;}{\f40\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 QTArabian;}
{\f41\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 AvantGarde;}{\f42\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Bookman;}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica-Narrow;}{\f44\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 NewCenturySchlbk;}{\f45\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Palatino;}{\f46\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 ZapfChancery;}
{\f47\fdecor\fcharset2\fprq2 ZapfDingbats;}{\f48\fmodern\fcharset255\fprq2 Modern;}{\f49\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq1 MS Dialog;}{\f50\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 CG Times (W1);}{\f51\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Garmond (W1);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar \f4\fs22\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title  - knightly orders - }{\author jf jf}
{\operator HF-Fakultetet}{\creatim\yr1996\mo2\dy5\hr16\min31}{\revtim\yr1996\mo2\dy10\hr12\min26}{\printim\yr1996\mo2\dy6\hr16\min14}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages23}{\nofwords8563}{\nofchars48810}{\*\company HF-EDB, NTNU}{\vern57435}}
\paperw11906\paperh16838\margl1417\margr1417\margt993\margb851 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\prcolbl\cvmme\otblrul\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0\fracwidth \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\widctlpar \f4\fs22\lang2057 {\lang1024 {\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt12288\dptxbx\dptxbxmar20{\dptxbxtext \pard\plain \widctlpar 
\f4\fs22\lang2057 {\b\i\f51\fs24 This file contains:}{\b\fs24 
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \fi-284\li284\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}{\b\i\f51\fs32 Clad in Steel}{\b\i\f51\fs28   -  an article on knightly Orders in the Old World.}

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\b\i\f51\fs32 Knights Templar}{\b\i\f51\fs28  - an article on the religious knightly Orders}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}\pard \fi-284\li284\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}{\b\i\f51\fs32 Defenders of the Faith}{\b\i\f51\fs28 
 - an article on the religious defenders of the less militant cults, and non-knightly warriors.}
\par \pard \widctlpar 
\par {\b\i\f51 Written and created by Colin \lquote Psychedelic Goblin\rquote  Chapman
\par The Knights of the Holy Quest created by Frederic Barnabe
\par The Golden Crests and Thundering Tempests created by Chris Clements, and modified by the PsyGoblin.
\par based on notes in TEW, WHCity, and SRiK, and on the insane scribblings of MadAlfred.
\par 
\par Special thanks to all who gave comments and suggestions including Kirk Lund (cheers matey!), Marco and Paolo Bizzarri (Such Goodfellas!), the infamous Garett Lepper (we\rquote 
re not worthy!), and Mr Whippy (for being a pain in the @$$ and for lending the Sense deception skill). If I\rquote ve forgot anyone it\rquote s due to senility at the great age of 22.
\par }{\b\i\f51\fs28 I salute you all!!}{\b\i\f51 
\par Why are you still reading this? haven\rquote t you anything better to do?...}
\par }\dpx210\dpy507\dpxsize9319\dpysize9216\dplinehollow\dplinecor0\dplinecog0\dplinecob0\dplinew5\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbggray10\dpfillpat0}{\*\do\dobxcolumn\dobypara\dodhgt12289\dprect\dpx3015\dpy3417\dpxsize3226\dpysize3196
\dplinehollow\dplinecor0\dplinecog0\dplinecob0\dplinew5\dpfillfgcr255\dpfillfgcg255\dpfillfgcb255\dpfillbggray10\dpfillpat0}}{\b\i\f32\fs48 \page  - Clad in Steel -} 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar {\i\fs20 \lquote  Smoke drifted eerily across the field of battle, touching lightly upon the corpses of the fallen, broken spears and weapons forming grotesque skeletal forms shrouded in mist.
\par For that brief moment the battlefield was still...quiet...until the screams of rage and pain began again...
\par \tab \lquote  Isn\rquote t war glorious Lord Hauer!\rquote 
\par The aged Lord turned with a sigh to regard his young compatriot, his eyes a mixture of regret and scorn behind the battered visor of his knightly helm.
\par \tab \lquote  I used to think so Sir Schmidt, but that was so long ago. Things are changing, \tab young Schmidt. You see that gunner over yonder?\rquote 
\par Schmidt followed the wave of Lord Hauers gauntleted fist, til his eyes alighted on the target.
\par \tab \lquote  That, young Schmidt, is the beginning of the end for us. When those infernal gunpowder \tab weapons come of age, we\rquote ll become redundant.\rquote 
\par \tab \lquote It\rquote ll never happen! We are superior to any gunnery troop!\rquote , scoffed Schmidt.
\par Ignoring his young comrade, Lord Hauer turned to face the rank of armoured noblemen at his flank. Looking from face to face regarding their determined, and among the wise, fearful eyes, he thrust his fist in the air!
\par \tab \lquote  CHARGE!!!\rquote 
\par With a thunder of hooves, they went to face Morr\rquote .
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32\fs24 Knightly Orders in the Old World}{\f32\fs24 
\par 
\par }Every province has its own noble knightly Order, and joining the cavalry is considered glorious and exciting for the younger sons of the nobility. Each Order is commanded by a high ranking nobleman, and there is great rivalry between the various orders.

\par \tab 
Almost without exception the orders are only open to men of noble blood. A person of lower birth must have committed some great act of heroism and benefit to the nobility to even be considered for such an honour, and even then he must be sponsored by a n
oble and show some refinement (possess Etiquette) before being sworn in.
\par \tab Even in the case of nobility, those who are obviously hopeless (read weak, uncoordinated) are refused, but are usually granted honourary status.
\par \tab 
The training for knighthood is strenuous and demanding, and many nobles fail to complete it. The hard physical regimen and combat drills also help to harden their resolve (and some would say their arrogance as well). Strength is a great factor for  the k
night, especially if they are to use such powerful (and heavy) weapons as the zweihander or flamberge.
\par \tab They train in extra heavy plate armour that builds their strength and endurance, and makes
 real plate armour seem light by comparison. They are trained in a variety of weapons, but avoid the use of missile weapons, seeing them as cowardly and unbefitting of a real warrior.
\par \tab 
Off the field of battle, the knights wear the typical trappings and apparel of the nobility, but they are unmistakable when girded for war. They are known for their suits of full plate armour with crested shields and helms, and only the most stubborn of 
Orders prefer full chain. In the case of standard and provincial noble Orders, their crests are usually an elaboration of the commander\rquote 
s family crest. When fighting for the Empire all of the knights bear shields with a skull motif and the initials of the current Emperor.
\par \tab Many young hopefuls train as squires, as a form of apprenticeship to knighthood but surprisingly few are ever elevated to the status of knight.
\par \page {\b\i\f32\fs24 Typical Knight
\par }
\par {\b\i\f32  - Advance Scheme -} 
\par  {\b WS  S   T  W   I    A  Dex  Ld   Int   Cl  WP  Fel}
\par  +30 +3 +2 +6 +20 +2 +20  +30  +10 +20 +20  +10
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Full Plate Armour
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Crested Helm
\par Heraldry\tab \tab \tab Crested Shield
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab Warhorse, saddle and harness
\par Secret Language - Battle\tab Appropriate weapons
\par Spec Weapon - Flail\tab \tab 4d6 GC
\par Spec Weapon - Lance
\par Spec Weapon - 2 Handed
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par Strike to Injure
\par Strike to Stun
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32\fs24 The Freelance (revised)
\par }{\b\i\f32 
\par }The Freelance represents the unaligned or disgraced knight who serves no lord or order. 
\par As such he suffers from a lack of the intensive training that is prevalent in most Orders.
\par Without the financial backing of a noble house or Order, he is often less well equipped.
\par Freelances, whether noble or not, are viewed with a little distaste by the nobility and aligned Orders, and become \lquote robber knights\rquote  who bully peasants for subsistance. But a few become the heroes of the peasantry.
\par For more information see WFRP pg 98.
\par 
\par  {\b\i\f32 - Advance Scheme -} 
\par {\b  WS  S  T  W   I    A  Dex  Ld Int   Cl  WP  Fel
\par }+30 +3 +1 +6 +20 +2 +20 +20 +10 +30 +10 +10
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Full Plate Armour (slightly battered)
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Helmet (slightly battered)
\par Heraldry\tab \tab \tab Warhorse, saddle and harness
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab Lance
\par Secret Language - Battle\tab Horseman\rquote s Axe of Flail
\par Spec Weapon - Flail\tab \tab d6 GC
\par Spec Weapon - Lance\tab \tab Shield (battered and dented)
\par Spec Weapon - 2 Handed
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par Strike to Injure
\par Strike to Stun{\b 
\par }
\par {\fs20 \page }{\b\i\f32\fs28 Order of the High Helms
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Background} - \tab {\i \lquote I\rquote ve just had the most splendid idea!\rquote }
\par                            - Emperor Karl-Franz I
\par 
\par \tab As the honourable Orders of the Empire go, the Order of the High Helms is the \tab newly conceived baby. On the 1st Sigmarzeit 2511 Emperor Karl-Franz I hit upon an \tab 
idea that struck his fancy; the creation of an Order of very tall and very tough knights \tab (with the emphasis on tall).
\par \tab Boredom can do incredible things...
\par \tab One month later the Order was constituted and recruitment began.
\par \tab Unsurprisingly the Order has been fairly slow to grow in numbers due to its strict \tab (read: ridiculous) entry requirements. 
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Base of Operations -} 
\par \tab At present they are being drilled in Altdorf, and consist of 24 fully trained knights
\par \tab with a further 12 in training.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Outsiders Opinions -
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar \lquote {\i Hahahahah! chuckle. This can\rquote t be serious!...can it?\rquote 
\par } - the normally stoic Wolfgang Zimmerman (Knight Panther)
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The typical outsiders opinion of the High Helms is one of amusement, and will \tab probably stay that way until the High helms get a chance to prove themselves in \tab 
combat. In addition the rest of the Imperial Guard have nick-named them the \lquote {\i giants}\rquote  \tab and make disparaging comments about their lack of intellect.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Typical Attitude -
\par 
\par }{\i \tab \lquote  I stand tall and proud in the service of this glorious Empire!\rquote }
\par     \tab  - Ludovicus Kemper (High Helm Commander)
\par 
\par \tab The High Helms are an extremely proud and aloof Order, and are painfully aware of  \tab their poor reputation. Of course they pretend not to notice but it stings their pride. As \tab 
a result they are itching for a chance to prove themselves, and come across as a little \tab gung-ho and stupid for just that reason.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - All High Helms must be at least 6\rquote 6\'94 tall.
\par \tab  - They must all have a Toughness of at least 5 before commencing training.
\par \tab  - All High helms must be of Imperial noble blood.
\par \tab  - They must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1418\widctlpar {\i\fs20 I (name) do hereby swear before Sigmar, Uniter of the Empire,
\par Hammer of the Goblins, and in the presence of the illustrious and esteemed
\par Emperor (name), Bearer of Unity, to serve the noble and proud
\par Order of the High Helms dutifully and without fail unto death, observing the  \tab \tab \tab following strictures of this most magnificent of Orders:
\par 
\par }{\i\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20  to serve and protect the Emperor, his family and the legitimate
\par }\pard \qj\fi1135\li283\widctlpar {\i\fs20 \tab \tab successors with my life;
\par }\pard \qj\fi1418\widctlpar {\i\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20 to render full and unquestioning service to my superiors in the Order
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar {\i\fs20 \tab \tab       \tab and those they appoint over me;
\par }\pard \qj\fi1418\widctlpar {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20 to serve and protect the Empire and its interests with my life.}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar {\b\i\f32 
\par 
\par Symbols, Colours and Dress - 
\par 
\par }\tab The High Helms wear highly polished full plate armour with a tall plume on their \tab helms. As part of the permanent Imperial Guard, their shields bear the skull motif \tab and the Emperors initials.
\par \tab They wear the colours of their original noble house.
\par \tab Upon initiation they are each presented with gold medallions bearing the dragon and \tab hammer. The hammer is inlayed in silver, and the dragon has a small ruby for its eye. \tab 
The dragon also features inlayed enamel scales. The medallion is valued at 35GC.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Career - 
\par \tab }See the typical Knight.
\par \page {\b\i\f32\fs28 The Knights Panther
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Background - }{\f32 
\par }\tab The Knights Panther possess a long and illustrious history, tracing their founding \tab back to 1500 I.C. when they formed (as the Knights Rampant) to fight in the \tab 
crusades against Araby. They renamed their Order after the beasts they found in the \tab Sultan of Araby\rquote s palace in Istranbul. They gained fame again under the banner of \tab Magnus the Pious to fight the Incursions of Chaos. They se
rved in Nuln until \tab Magnus brother Gunthar withdrew to Middenheim after being refused the title of \tab Emperor. The Order saw the appointment of Count Leopold of Stirland as a grave \tab mistake and withdrew with Gunthar to Middenheim.
\par \tab They hone their skills by making regular mutant hunting forays into the nearby \tab Drak Wald Forest.
\par \tab On these hunts they are often accompanied by Templars of the White Wolf, and \tab as a \tab result the relations between the two Orders are friendly (but still competitive).
\par \tab Unlike many Orders they have no disdain of fighting on foot, where they use the \tab halberd to deadly effect.{\f32 
\par \tab 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Base of Operations -}{\f32  }The majority (90) of the Knights Panther are stationed in Middenheim, \tab but an additional contingent of 30 is based in Talabheim with the express permission \tab of Grand Duke von Krieglitz.{\f32 
\par }\tab In recent years a small unit of 15 Knights Panther has been loaned to the Tsar of \tab Kislev, \tab in return for a much larger contingent (45) of Kislevite cavalry each summer.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Outsiders Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \tab {\i \lquote In Tzeentch\rquote s name! It\rquote s the Knights Panther! Run for your lives!!\rquote 
\par \tab   - }Otto Schtump (mutant)
\par 
\par \tab The Knights Panther have a powerful and respected reputation and many mutants \tab live in fear of these unforgiving and fanatical warriors. Even ordinary folk view them \tab as driven men and give them a healthy respect (and wide berth).
\par \tab They have earned the respect and admiration of all other military units and Orders.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Typical Attitude -} 
\par \tab 
\par \tab \lquote {\i Die mutant scum!!\rquote 
\par \tab  - }Gunnar Holtz (Knight Panther){\i 
\par 
\par \tab }The typical Knight Panther is driven and tenacious in the extreme. They are obsessed \tab with racial purity and can be very brooding and moody in aspect.
\par \tab Many suffer with a Hatred of Mutants and Goblinoids.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - All Knights Panther must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 I swear before Sigmar and Ulric, and in the witness of this company
\par here gathered, to serve the ancient and noble Order of the Knights 
\par Panther truly and faithfully unto death, observing the laws of the Order:
\par 
\par }{\i\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20    to serve and protect Graf (name) Todbringer, his family, his legitimate
\par }\pard \qj\fi1560\widctlpar {\i\fs20 successors and his appointed officers with my life;
\par }\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20    to render full and unquestioning service to my superiors in the Order
\par }\pard \qj\fi1560\widctlpar {\i\fs20 and to those they appoint over me;
\par }\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20    never to suffer any person or thing bearing the mark of Chaos to live
\par      while there is breath in my body.
\par The Order has my oath which only death may break. Let all here bear witness.
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar {\i\fs20 \page }{\b\i\f32 Symbols, Colours and Dress - 
\par 
\par }\tab Each knight is presented with a gold medallion upon initiation. This medallion bears a rearing panther, with the background and spots filled in with black enamel.
\par \tab Their helms bear unusual crests consisting of a scaly neck topped with an \tab individualised demonic head, from which is hung a long black mane.
\par \tab Their colours are black on yellow, and their tabards feature a central black flower.
\par \tab Their shields bear their symbol.
\par \tab A Knights Panther is depicted on WFRP pg 214.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Notes -} 
\par \tab Only the most extraordinary and driven of people will ever be considered for the Knights Panther, and racial purity is an absolute law.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Advance Scheme -} 
\par {\b\i\f32\fs24 Knight Panther
\par }{\b  WS S   T  W    I   A  Dex Ld  Int   Cl  WP 
\par }+30 +3 +2 +6 +20 +2 +20 +30 +10 +30 +20{\b  
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings
\par }Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Sleeved Mail Coat
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Breastplate
\par Heraldry\tab \tab \tab Mail Coif
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab Crested Helmet
\par Secret Language - Battle\tab Crested Shield
\par Spec Weapon - Flail\tab \tab Tabard
\par Spec Weapon - Lance\tab \tab Panther Medallion (value 15GC)
\par Spec Weapon - Pole Arm\tab Warhorse, saddle and harness
\par Spec Weapon - 2 Handed\tab Appropriate weapons
\par Strike Mighty Blow\tab \tab 3d6 GC
\par Strike to Injure
\par Strike to Stun{\b 
\par }
\par \page {\b\i\f51\fs28 Knights of the Golden Crest
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f51 Background -}{\b\i\f51\fs28  
\par \tab }Not all knightly Orders are dedicated to a realm, or for that matter, anything of \tab worth. The Knights of the Golden Crest is essentially a club for wealthy men that \tab 
fancy themselves as warriors of reknown. Although only open to nobility, admittance \tab is by invite only (and a bribe is the usual method of gaining such an invite). \tab 
Supposedly, the Crests only ask the most deserving and skilled warriors to join, but \tab in practice an invalid could join with enough passed Crowns. 
\par \tab This was not always the case however. Indeed, the Order has a long and proud \tab history of heroic battles, and accounted themselves well during the last Incursions of \tab Chaos. At the palace in Altdorf 
lay the many banners of their fallen foes. The last \tab time the Order engaged in battle (without retainers and mercenaries) was well over \tab forty years ago, in a skirmish against the Tzeentch cult \lquote Changers of Fate\rquote , which \tab 
cost them many of their members. Since then, the Order has avoided the field of \tab battle and stuck to jousts and tourneys, but with their high failure rate they are \tab declining to enter many contests. Why the change? (see notes). The cause is \tab 
probably lost to history.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Base of Operations -} 
\par \tab The Golden Crests have strongholds (mansions) at many locations, with \tab the biggest \tab located in Altdorf. They also have a sizeable stronghold in Talabheim.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Outsiders Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote To call them knights is an insult!}{\i\fs20 \rquote 
\par }{\i  -}{\i\fs20  }Wolfgang Zimmerman (Knight Panther).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab Being openly arrogant, scornful of the lower classes, and obviously lacking in the \tab \lquote right stuff\rquote , the Crests have earned the disdain of commoners and other knightly \tab 
Orders alike. They are viewed as fashionable among the young noble set but have \tab spurned a few \lquote lesser nobles\rquote  and earned their enmity as well. Few would care to \tab 
voice these opinions openly, for the Crests wield considerable political clout.
\par \tab This political potency makes them difficult foes or neutral parties to deal with.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote Get out of my way you insignificant oik, before I have you flogged!\rquote 
\par  - }Adelbert the Gifted (Golden Crest addressing a commoner).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab Their reputation proceeds them, and what\rquote s more, it is very accurate. They are \tab arrogant, scornful and self important. They are also lazy, and few train for any real \tab 
amount of time. Parties and social life are their mainstay. They ensure their members \tab get the best breaks from the government and social groups, and are also rumoured to \tab have links to the underground, being able to locate and retrieve items of 
\lquote special\rquote  \tab interest.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - Must be of noble blood.
\par \tab  - Admittance by invite only.
\par \tab  - Must swear the following Oath (not that they adhere to it anymore):
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 I (name) of the esteemed (family), being a true,  noble and blue-blooded warrior, do 
\par hereby swear to uphold the laws of this great, legendary, and supreme Order of the 
\par Golden Crests, faithfully and with valour until death, observing the laws of chivalry.
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar {\b\i\f51 
\par Symbols, Colours and Dress -}{\i\fs20  
\par }\tab 
\par \tab The Golden Crests are nothing if not ostentatious and wear ceremonial, embellished \tab golden full plate, carry decorated hand weapons and shields. Due to the decline in \tab 
training few of them can move swiftly in their armour. Due to this they avoid \tab wearing it when possible, resorting to lavish nobility dress.
\par \tab Their symbol is a golden half-circle enwrapped in green vines. Often the individual
\par \tab will put his heraldic device within the borders of the half-circle. Other symbols \tab include a rising sun on a red background and a golden axe, with the axe head in the \tab shape of a half-circle.
\par {\b\i\f51 
\par Notes -} 
\par \tab The Golden Crests have been infiltrated by the cult of Slaanesh! PC\rquote s may find clues \tab to suggest this, and find the extent of the corruption, implicating some very \tab important (and powerful) government figures.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Advance Scheme -} 
\par {\b\i\f51\fs24 Knights of the Golden Crest
\par }{\b  WS BS*  T  W    I    A  Dex Ld  Int   Cl  WP Fel
\par } +10 +10  +1 +4 +10 +1 +10 +30 +20 +10 +10 +30
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Bribery\tab \tab \tab \tab Etched, golden, full plate armour (cost 5-10 times normal)
\par Etiquette\tab \tab \tab Decorated hand weapon (cost 5-10 times normal)
\par Heraldry\tab \tab \tab Decorated shield (cost 5-10 times normal)
\par Public Speaking\tab \tab Lance
\par Read/Write\tab \tab \tab Warhorse, saddle and harness
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab 10d6 GC worth of jewellery
\par Spec Weapon - Lance\tab \tab fine clothes
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab 10d6 GC
\par 
\par * {\i BS} - The Golden Crests regularly have hunting parties, and given their disregard of knightly principles, do occasionally practice with missile weapons.\tab 
\par \pard \qc\widctlpar \page {\b\i\f32\fs32 - The Knights Templar -} 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar Several knightly Orders exist that are connected with religious cults, and these are known as the Knights of the Temple, or Knights Templar.
\par \tab They are the elite of their respective religions fighting force, and only the most martial of the cults have such Orders.
\par \tab Unlike the non-aligned or noble Orders, the Knights Templar are more open to the admission of commoners, but with a large number of clergy hailing from the noble houses, it is still easier for those of noble blood to join.
\par \tab 
Without fail, all who desire to serve in these religious Orders must be devoted to the ruling deity, so many are recruited from promising Initiates. In the majority of cases the would be Knight Templar must undergo a period as a squire to a fully fledged
 member of the Order.
\par \tab The training the Knights Templar receive is almost identical to that of a regular knight, but they are expected to be conversant in (and adhere to) cult doctrine.
\par \tab Compared to the noble Orders, the life of a Knight Templar is spartan, for they receive few luxuries and are barracked at the temple. They receive cult garments, board, provisioning, and a modest retainer.
\par \tab Additionally, as cult members they may receive gifts or blessings from their cults deity at the GMs discretion.
\par \tab Unless noted, these Orders are only open to men.
\par {\b\i\f32\fs28 \page Order of the Blazing Sun  (Myrmidia)
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Background -
\par \tab }The Order of the Blazing Sun was founded during the Battle of Magritta in 1448.
\par \tab Since that period they have served with distinction in innumerable battles, and have had a handful of famous female members.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Base of Operations -} 
\par \tab The Order\rquote s main base is in Magritta, Estalia, but they have contingents in Tilea and \tab Talabheim as well.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Outsider Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar \tab {\i \lquote Retreat!!\rquote 
\par }    - Commander Pavarotti of Tilea (realising he has been out manoeuvred 
\par        and outflanked by the Order\rquote s tactical brilliance)
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The Order of the Blazing Sun is greatly respected and admired by most of the Old \tab World military, save perhaps for a number of Ulricans. They have a reputation as \tab 
approachable and human people but can easily bore a listener to tears recounting \tab great tactical battles.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar \tab {\i \lquote Cohort One! Hold Fast!
\par \tab  Cohort Two! Scissor Right!
\par \tab  We\rquote ve got them!\rquote 
\par \tab } - Lorenz Placito (Commander of the Order)
\par      successfully blocking the retreat of Pavarotti\rquote s Army.
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab On the whole the Knights of the Blazing Sun are a well balanced group as religious \tab Orders go. They are fiercely loyal and obedient to their commanders and each other.\tab 
They are intelligent, and maintain a cool and calm attitude under the greatest of \tab stress. As they\rquote ll happily tell anyone; \lquote losing your head can lose you the battle\rquote .
\par \tab They are a model of professionalism and preparation, with their only flaw being \tab their love of recounting long and detailed war stories.
\par \tab Relations with the Templars of the White Wolf are strained as they regard the \tab Ulricans as brutish and unsubtle thugs.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Requirements - 
\par }\tab  - The prospective knight must have served in a military profession before.
\par \tab  - This Order is open to either sex.
\par \tab  - They must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 I (name), (rank) of (army), swear before Myrmidia, Greatest of Commanders,
\par and in the witness of those gathered here, to serve dutifully and honourably
\par the precepts of this grand Order:
\par 
\par }{\f1 \'b7\tab }  {\i\fs20 to render full and unquestioning service to those of higher rank, bearing that \tab \tab \tab   Myrmidia is highest of all;}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to plan for all conflicts, ensuring victory with minimal casualties;}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to spare the surrendered enemy, for to do otherwise is craven and dishonourable;
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent-1276\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}  {\i\fs20 to protect the cult, its holdings and devoted followers with my life}.
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 The Order has my Oath, sworn with honour before Myrmidia. Let all here bear \tab 
\par         witness.
\par }
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar {\b\i\f32 Symbols, Colours and Dress -} 
\par 
\par \tab The Blazing Suns wear full plate armour with a blazing sun helmet crest.
\par \tab Their shields feature the Myrmidian eagle. Their trappings are white cloth edged \tab with red. They all possess medallions of a gold eagle clutching a silver shield and spear.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Advance Scheme -} 
\par {\b\i\f32\fs24 Order of the Blazing Sun
\par }{\b  WS  S  T  W    I   A Dex  Ld  Int   Cl  WP Fel
\par }+30 +3 +2 +6 +30 +2 +20 +40 +20 +30 +20 +10
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills \tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Cult Doctrine - Myrmidia\tab Full Plate Armour
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Crested Helmet
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Shield
\par Read/Write\tab \tab \tab Appropriate Weapons
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab Symbol (value I5 GC)\tab \tab 
\par Secret Language - Battle\tab Warhorse, saddle and harness\tab 
\par Spec Weapon - Flail\tab \tab 3d6 GC
\par Spec Weapon - Lance
\par Spec Weapon - 2 Handed
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par Strike to Injure
\par Strike to Stun
\par Tactics
\par {\b\i\f32\fs28 \page Knights of the Cleansing Flame (Solkan)
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Background -}{\b\i\f32\fs28  
\par }\tab The Knights of the Cleansing Flame were founded in the latter stages of the Remean \tab Empire and have gained notoriety for their merciless brutality during the Crusades \tab against Araby. With the erosion of Solkan\rquote 
s cult, the Knights of the Cleansing Flame \tab have dwindled in numbers quite significantly, and are almost unknown beyond the \tab boundaries of Remas.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Base of Operations -} 
\par \tab The Knights of the Cleansing Flame are stationed in Remas, Tilea, but now only \tab number 29.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Outsiders Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar \tab {\i \lquote They still exist?!\rquote 
\par \tab  - }Lorenz Placito (Blazing Sun Commander)
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab Few people are aware of the Orders continued existence, but if they were aware, their \tab attitude would certainly be one of fear. To those that are aware of them, they are little \tab better than fanatical Witch Hunters.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Typical Attitude -} 
\par \tab 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar \lquote {\i Destroy the cancer of Chaos!\rquote 
\par  - }Tobias (Knight of the Cleansing Flame)
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The reputation of this Order is very true and accurate for many were previously \tab 
Witch Hunters, and all are fanatical, merciless and vigilant to a degree that would make a Knights Panther shiver in revulsion. Many have suffered attacks or encounters with
 Chaos in their youth, and the event left them with an unremitting Hatred of chaos, and drove them to the worship of their harsh deity.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - The candidate must be a devoted follower of Solkan
\par \tab  - The candidate must have had no truck with Chaos nor bear its taint.
\par \tab  - The candidate must be of Lawful alignment.
\par \tab  - The candidate must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 Solkan! Baleful god of retribution! destroyer of Chaos!
\par I (name) swear this Oath to thee, knowing that it is inviolate.
\par I render myself unswerving to this rigid Order and the True Laws
\par that you have set:
\par 
\par }{\f1 \'b7\tab }  {\i\fs20 to seek out and burn the cancer that is Chaos!}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to receive council only from these strictures!}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to uphold the law, bearing that these are inviolate!}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to avenge a wrong at any cost!
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent-1276\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}  {\i\fs20 to defend the cults holdings and true followers to my last breath!}
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 
\par I am bound to your Law. Should I fail, may the flames of Flammendrung 
\par consume me!}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par {\b\i\f32 Symbols, Colours and Dress -} 
\par 
\par \tab The Cleansing Flames wear shiny silver plate armour over blackened chain.
\par \tab They wield blackened swords, and their shields and breastplates bear the symbol of  the flame engraved upon them. They wear black cloaks trimmed with fire colours.
\par \tab They are all branded with Solkan\rquote s sigil on their chest at their initiation.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Advance Scheme -} 
\par {\b\i\f32\fs24 Knight of the Cleansing Flame
\par }{\b  WS  S  T  W    I   A  Dex Ld   Int  Cl  WP
\par }+30 +3 +2 +6 +20 +2 +20 +30 +20 +40 +30
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Cult Doctrine - Solkan\tab \tab Shiny Full Plate armour
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Shiny Crested Shield
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Black Cloak
\par Read/Write\tab \tab \tab Blackened Mail
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab Blackened Sword
\par Secret Language - Battle\tab Lance
\par Spec Weapon - Lance\tab \tab Blackened 2 Handed Sword
\par Spec Weapon - 2 Handed\tab Warhorse, tackle and harness
\par Strike Mighty Blow\tab \tab 2d6 GC
\par Strike to Injure\tab \tab \tab 
\par Strike to Stun
\par 
\par \page {\b\i\f32\fs28 Order of the Fiery Hearts (Sigmar)
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Background -}{\b\i\f32\fs28  
\par }\tab This esteemed Order was founded during the civil war of 1359 when the cult of Sigmar was outlawed in Talabecland. Since that period they have served with \tab distinction in numerous campaigns where they serve alongside the Imperial Army in \tab 
times of war.
\par \tab They earned their moniker due to their passion for Sigmar and the Empire.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Base of Operations -} 
\par \tab Altdorf.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Outsider Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar \lquote {\i Worthy warriors. \lquote Tis a shame they are heretics.\rquote 
\par } - Olaf (Templar of the White Wolf and adherent
\par                               of the Sigmarite Heresy sect).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The Order of the Fiery hearts has a reputation for courage, honesty and fanatical \tab devotion. Like all fanatics, they can be dangerous, but they garner a general respect \tab 
and admiration of both Imperial citizens and the dwarven cults. Relations with the Templars of the WhiteWolf are strained at best.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote For Sigmar! For the Empire!\rquote }
\par  - Quintus (Fiery Heart).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The temperament of the typical Fiery Heart varies tremendously but they all have \tab two things in common: Fanatical devotion to Sigmar and the Empire, and a Hatred of goblinoids.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - The candidate must be of Imperial birth.
\par \tab  - The candidate must be free of any traces of goblinoid blood.
\par \tab  - The candidate must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 I (name) swear before Sigmar, Warrior and Unifier, to serve the ancient and noble 
\par Order of the Fiery Hearts truly and faithfully unto death, observing the holy laws that 
\par Sigmar set forth:
\par 
\par }{\f1 \'b7\tab }  {\i\fs20 to serve the Empire and it\rquote s interests with my life;
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent-1276\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}   {\i\fs20 to protect the cult, its scared ground and sublime followers til death;}
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to render full and unquestioning service to those of higher rank in this blessed cult;}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to serve and protect the Emperor, his family and legitimate successors with my life;}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to seek out and annihilate the goblinoids and wipe all trace of their existence from }
\par {\i\fs20       the Empire;
\par }{\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to show favour to an honourable dwarfs request for aid;}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to destroy the taint of Chaos and its minions wherever and whosoever they are.}
\par {\i\fs20 
\par The Order has my Oath, sworn before Heldenhammer. May I be damned if I fail. }
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par {\b\i\f32 Symbols, Colours and Dress -} 
\par 
\par \tab As with the majority of knights this Order wears full plate armour. Their shields bear a flaming heart at the centre of which is one of Sigmar\rquote s symbols. Those of noble \tab 
blood may bear their own heraldic head crest, while those of common blood bear a \tab simple pair of horns. The Order\rquote s colour is grey. Their symbol is a gold medallion inlayed with a silver hammer and coloured enamel twin-tailed comet.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Notes -} 
\par \tab Because Sigmar was himself a commoner there are no restrictions on commoners \tab entering this Order, but the bulk are noblemen.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Advance Scheme - 
\par }{\b\i\f32\fs24 Order of the Fiery Heart
\par }{\b  WS  S  T  W    I   A  Dex  Ld  Int  Cl  WP  Fel
\par }+30 +3 +2 +6 +20 +2 +20 +30 +10 +30 +20 +10
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Cult Doctrine - Sigmar\tab \tab Full Plate Armour
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Crested Shield
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Crested Helmet
\par Etiquette\tab \tab \tab Horseman\rquote s Hammer
\par Hammer of Sigmar*\tab \tab Lance
\par Heraldry\tab \tab \tab 2 Handed Warhammer
\par Read/Write\tab \tab \tab Warhorse, saddle and harness
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab Symbol
\par Secret Language - Battle\tab 2d6 GC
\par Spec Weapon - Lance
\par Spec Weapon - 2 Handed
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par Strike to Injure
\par Strike to Stun
\par 
\par * {\i Hammer of Sigmar} - special cult skill. May be used Once per day. For more details see TEW.
\par {\b\i\f51\fs28 \page Knights of the Holy Quest (Arianka)
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f51 Background - 
\par }\tab 
The Templars of Arianka, goddess of Law and Discipline, are known to many scholars as the first knights. They were the first knightly Order in its true sense, but their name disappeared centuries ago. Legend has it that they were the most well structured 
and famous Orders with hundreds of mighty warriors preaching peace and discipline.
\par \tab When Tzeentch, the Architect of Fate, defeated the goddess and imprisoned her in the crystal coffin, her cult collapsed...The master of the Order chose to dissolve the \tab band
 and set them a quest: The Quest for the Holy Grave. Each knight started a long and lonely journey throughout the known world and beyond, to seek Arianka and restore her to power. As the years have passed, many have died and their have been few to replace
 them. Each son of a templar inherits the goal and lifestyle of his father \tab in the everlasting quest.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Base of Operations -} 
\par \tab None. Arianka\rquote s temples no longer stand, and her few remaining knights errant number 17.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Outsiders Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote Don\rquote t be ridiculous. They are a myth, a legend. This is a story for children, 
\par nothing more than a beautiful tale\rquote .
\par   - }Alphonse Dumoulin (Historian in Couronne).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab As noted, the Templars of the Holy Quest are few in number, and are lone knights \tab 
scattered throughout the world. Most scholars are unsure of their continued existence. Only the Knights of the Cleansing Flame are aware they exist and attempt to aid them whenever possible.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Typical Attitudes -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote  Discipline is my way. Law is my Life\rquote 
\par  - }Yvan Kropchek (one of the few).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab 
Knights of this Order are fierce, proud and utterly disciplined in mind and body. They live in accordance with the laws of Arianka and the Code of Chivalry, and neither are open to interpretation in their eyes. They are fanatical and driven but are \tab 
sometimes overcome with shame at their failure to defend or find their goddess.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - Only open to the sons of the Order.
\par \tab  - Must be of lawful alignment.
\par \tab  - Must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 I swear before Solkan, brother and consort of Arianka, my goddess, to serve the 
\par everlasting quest of the Holy Grave, to never rest nor swerve from my single purpose, 
\par until that day when Arianka is released to her rightful godhood.
\par O Solkan, punish me without mercy if I should weaken of fail in my resolve!
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar {\b\i\f51 Symbols, Colours and Dress -}{\i\fs20  
\par }\tab Generally the members of this Order wear battered antique plate armour and weapons. Many of these ancient articles are imbued with magic. They wear white travel stained trappings.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Advance Scheme -} 
\par {\b\i\f51\fs24 Knight of the Holy Quest
\par }{\b WS  S   T  W    I   A  Dex Ld   Int   Cl  WP
\par }+30 +3 +3 +6 +20 +2 +20 +20 +20 +30 +40
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Skills \tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings*}
\par Cartography\tab \tab \tab Battered antique full plate
\par Cult Doctrine - Arianka\tab \tab Battered antique shield
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Battered antique knights helmet
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Lance
\par Law\tab \tab \tab \tab Antique weapons
\par Linguistics\tab \tab \tab Warhorse, saddle and harness
\par Orientation\tab \tab \tab d6 GC
\par Read/Write
\par Ride - Horse
\par Spec Weapon - Lance
\par Spec Weapon - 2 Handed
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par Strike to Injure
\par Strike to Stun
\par Tracking
\par 
\par * {\i Trappings} - represents the well equipped knight. Many are not so fortunate.
\par 
\par  \page {\b\i\f32\fs28 The Justicars (Verena)
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Background -}{\b\i\f32\fs28  }According to the strictures of Verena violence is the last resort when reason has failed, and for the cult of Verena the Justicars are that last resort.
\par \tab Their duties are many and varied involving temple and clerical guard duties, court \tab guards, aides to the Inquisition, and the hunting of the most dire felons.
\par \tab They work with the Inquisition to expose corruption and dishonesty within the cult and officialdom within Estalia. In cases where extreme injustice has been perpetrated \tab 
(such as particularly vile rapes, murders, mass murder etc.), and the felon hasn\rquote t been \tab 
brought to justice yet, the cult often dispatches a pair of Justicars to track down the criminal and bring him to justice. They will not rely on common bounty hunters for such tasks because bounty hunters are not above question themselves. They relentle
ssly and directly pursue the felon and bring him to justice, but in their eyes \tab 
injustice is always repaid in kind, and the worst scum are captured and handed to the cults torturers. For lesser crimes they are not above acting as judge, jury and execution
er. The Justicars have not taken to the field of battle since the last Incursions of Chaos in 2303.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Outsiders Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote ...groan...Damn you and your kind!\rquote  CRACKK!! \lquote Arrgh!! My arm!!\rquote 
\par  - }Heinz Kufer (captured and beaten murderer).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab Opinions of the Justicars are very strong, and they are feared and respected both by the scum they hunt, and the common folk, who although grateful for the justice and \tab 
protection, give them the healthy respect all driven people receive.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote  How does it feel to be on the receiving end Heinz?! I\rquote m not some defenseless \tab \tab woman am I? You\rquote re going to suffer for your crimes you sick sonofa...\rquote 
\par  - }Theodosius (Justicar making Heinz pay before executing him).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The Justicar is driven, relentless, determined, vigil
ant and utterly ruthless in the quest for justice. Most hold the law in utter contempt and are very direct in approach. despite all this they are usually good people who have turned some hurt of their past into a hatred of injustice.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - It would be unjust to bar women entry to this Order so they are permitted.
\par \tab  - It would be unjust to bar commoners from this Order so they to are permitted.
\par \tab  - The prospective candidate must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 I (name) do hereby swear before Verena, sword of Justice, and in the presence 
\par of those here gathered, to serve truly and faithfully the just Order of Justicars 
\par unto death, observing the following precepts set forth by Verena:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent-1276\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}  {\i\fs20 to seek justice above all other concerns;}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20   to never resort to falsehood save when the above stricture is served by doing so;}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20   to only pass judgement that is reasonable and true;}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20   to protect the cult, its holdings and followers truly;}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 This I swear upon the sword, to punish the unjust.}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar {\i\fs20   }
\par {\b\i\f32 Symbols, Colours and Dress -} 
\par 
\par \tab 
The Justicars wear functional plate mail and bear swords, including a 2 handed variety used purely for summary execution. They wear white tabards and cowls and all receive symbol in the form of a silver set of scales and sword at initiation. Their shield
 features an attacking owl holding a sword in one claw and a set of scales in the other. Their helms feature an attacking owl.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Advance Scheme -} 
\par {\b\i\f32\fs24 Justicar of Verena
\par }{\b WS  S   T  W    I   A Dex  Ld  Int   Cl   WP
\par }+30 +3 +2 +6 +20 +2 +20 +30 +20 +30 +30
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Cult Doctrine - Verena\tab \tab Full Plate Armour
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Crested Helmet
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Crested Shield
\par Follow Trail\tab \tab \tab Sword
\par Intimidate\tab \tab \tab 2 Handed Executioners Sword
\par Read/Write\tab \tab \tab d4+2 manacles
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab Truncheon
\par Sense Deception\tab \tab White tabard and cowl
\par Spec Weapon - 2 Handed\tab Symbol
\par Strike Mighty Blow\tab \tab Warhorse, saddle and harness
\par Strike to Injure\tab \tab \tab 2d6 GC
\par Strike to Stun
\par Wrestling
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32\fs28 \page Templars of the White Wolf (Ulric)
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Background - 
\par }\tab The Templars of the White Wolf can trace their heritage back further than just about any Order, right back to when they were a group of Ulrican mercenary Teutognens under the banner of Artur (approx -50 I.C).
\par \tab As time has gone by the Order has gradually evolved and the barbarian warrior has been replaced by the knight as the epitome of personal combat.
\par \tab The Templars of the White Wolf hone their skills by constant combat drills and matches at the temple, and regularly accompany the Knights Panther on their mutant hunting forays.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Base of Operation -} 
\par \tab Middenheim.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Outsiders Opinion -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar \lquote {\i Brutish, mindless thug. Oh Sigmar! He heard me!\rquote 
\par  - }The soon to be beaten Herpin (Initiate of Sigmar).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab 
The Templars of the White Wolf have a reputation as fierce, courageous (to the point of foolhardiness), and vicious fanatics. Their reputation also suffers from the bully boy antics of their more notorious members. They are respected and feared warriors,
 but their abrasive outlook has created a number of rivalries including the Sigmarite Order of the Fiery Hearts and the Myrmidian Order of the Blazing Sun.
\par \tab Only the Knights Panther can claim cordial relations.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote RRAAARARGH!!!\rquote }
\par  - Olaf (Templar of the White Wolf entering frenzy).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The typical Templar of the White Wolf is not as obnoxious as outsider\rquote s opinions \tab 
would suggest, but they are fierce and usually abrupt. Patience is not their strong suit, and tactics is a filthy word. The only tactic worthy of a warrior is the charge. They prefer their combat \lquote up close and personal\rquote  a
nd eschew the lance in favour of a two handed Battle Axe.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - The candidate must have completed a conflict based career (but not necessarily     military).
\par \tab  - The candidate must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 Hear me Ulric! I (name) stand before you ready! Accept me into your pack, and I will 
\par be as a wolf in this powerful Order. Accept my Oath that I swear upon my life! While 
\par there is breath in my body I will uphold your harsh doctrine:
\par 
\par }{\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to never refuse a direct challenge;}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to never resort to the weak fools guiles of trickery, lying or cheating;}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to never use the coward\rquote s weapons of gunpowder, firebombs or crossbows;}
\par {\f1 \'b7\tab }{\i\fs20   to serve my superiors without question, but hold your ideals above theirs;
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent-1276\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}  {\i\fs20 to protect the cults holdings with my life.}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 Hear me Ulric! Should I fail, sunder the flesh from my body to feed your pack}{\i !}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par {\b\i\f32 
\par Symbols, Colours and Dress -} 
\par 
\par \tab The Templars of the White Wolf wear functional, unornamented full plate armour.
\par \tab They all wear wolfskin cloaks with the head of the wolf being mounted on the helmet. They are all given silver wolf head medallions upon initiation.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Notes -} 
\par \tab {\i \lquote Ulric cares nothing for the lofty pretensions of the noble born. All of strong arm and \tab courage are equal in His eyes\rquote .} 
\par \tab Therefore their are no restrictions upon those of \tab common birth in this Order.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Advance Scheme -} 
\par {\b\i\f32\fs24 Templar of the White Wolf
\par }{\b WS  S   T  W    I   A  Dex  Ld  Cl  WP 
\par }+40 +3 +3 +6 +20 +2 +20 +20 +40 +20
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Cult Doctrine - Ulric*\tab \tab Full Plate Armour
\par Charm Animal - Wolf\tab \tab Shield
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Horseman\rquote s Axe
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab 2 Handed Battle Axe
\par Frenzied Attack\tab \tab \tab Wolfskin cloak*
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab Silver Medallion (value 2 GC)
\par Secret Language - Battle\tab Warhorse, saddle and harness.
\par Spec Weapon - 2 Handed\tab 2d6 GC
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par Strike to Injure
\par Strike to Stun
\par Wrestling
\par 
\par * {\i Cult Doctrine - Ulric.} The Templars of the White Wolf are taught the doctrine orally, because they won\rquote t waste valuable training time with the puny pursuit of reading.
\par 
\par * {\i Wolfskin Cloak} - The Templars of the White Wolf may only wear the skin of a wolf they have killed personally, using only the weapons provided by nature. This act is the final part of their initiation.
\par 
\par \pard \qc\widctlpar \page {\b\i\f32\fs28  - Defenders of the Faith - 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar Although the Knights Templar represent the elite religious fighting force, many of the less aggressive cults have their own defenders, and these are referred to simply as Templars.
\par \tab The use of templar in this text does not necessarily imply a temple based guard or warrior, but is used to refer to religious defenders of all sorts.
\par \tab Due to their strictures it would be against their beliefs for them to employ warriors who didn\rquote t adhere to their religious law. For example, the templars of Shallya and Morr are opposed to killing and couldn\rquote 
t trust normal warriors or the more militant Knights Templar to defend them without resorting to bloodshed.
\par \tab In addition they have many unique situations
 or holdings that require protection, ranging from defending clerics of the faith on missions, guarding hospices or cemetaries etc. In the case of the templar of Ranald, they too are opposed to killing and require defenders who are not aligned in any way 
with officialdom.
\par \tab Whatever the reasons, it is necessary for each cult to have defenders of a sort to protect their best interests.
\par \tab It is worth noting that the templars of the less militant cults are not knights, nor do they adhere to the knightly principles or requirements.
\par \tab All prospective templars must adhere to the strictures of their faith, and are usually chosen from suitable worshipers and initiates by a clerical council. Any unique requirements will be noted in the individual descriptions.
\par \tab Unless noted, these Orders are open to either sex.
\par 
\par \page {\b\i\f32\fs28 Order of the Black Shroud (Morr)
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Background -}{\b\i\f32\fs28  
\par \tab }The Order of the Black Shroud is responsible for guarding the cemetaries against the depredation of Morr\rquote s mortal enemies, the grave robbers and necromancers.
\par \tab They maintain a long and silent vigil throughout the night, and spend the day in rest and quiet contemplation, studying the ways of their most hated foes, necromancers and the undead.
\par \tab They take pains to avoid swelling the ranks of Khaine\rquote s realm, and avoid murder, but in the rare cases when they take to the field against an undead menace, they give no quarter.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Outsiders Opinions - 
\par 
\par \tab }{\i \lquote They\rquote re downright spooky if you ask me\rquote .
\par \tab } - Hans Klink (Townsperson).
\par 
\par \tab The Order of the Black Shroud faces mixed reactions from the outside world, ranging from a \tab unease to a feeling of peace, depending on the individuals feelings about death. 
\par \tab One thing is constant, they are always given respect, save by Necromancers or worshippers of Khaine.
\par {\b\i\f32 
\par Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \tab {\i \lquote Only in the quiet of contemplation can we even begin to comprehend death\rquote 
\par \tab  - }Hals (Order of the Black Shroud).
\par 
\par \tab The typical Watcher is calm, deliberate, and above all quiet. Even when facing their \tab mortal enemies they take care to avoid betraying any signs of emotion.
\par \tab They are usually good people who have suffered some profound loss, such as the death of someone beloved.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - the candidate must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 Morr, Lord of the Final Rest, I (name) swear upon my fragile life to serve the 
\par Order of the Black Shroud faithfully and truly until I receive your final 
\par calling, and to uphold your most holy of strictures:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent-1276\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}  {\i\fs20 to protect your holdings, sacred ground, and the dwellings of the dead with my life;}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20   to never enter or disturb a place of burial save to protect it from desecration;}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20   to always oppose Necromancers and the followers of the evil brother.}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par {\b\i\f32 Symbols, Colours and Dress -
\par  } 
\par \tab The Black Shrouds avoid ostentatious apparel, preferring simple black cowls and tabards. In keeping they blacken their armour and wear black open face helmets.
\par \tab Upon initiation they are presented with a black lacquered silver medallion of a raven.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Advance Scheme -}{\f32  
\par }{\b\i\f32\fs24 Order of the Black Shroud}{\b\i\fs24 
\par }{\b  WS BS  S   T  W    I   A  Dex Ld   Int   Cl  WP
\par }+20 +20 +1 +2 +4 +20 +2 +10 +20 +20 +30 +30
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Cult Doctrine - Morr\tab \tab \tab Black cowl and tabard
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Stave*
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab \tab Plain Black Shield
\par Identify Undead\tab \tab \tab Blackened Sleeved Mail Coat
\par Night Vision\tab \tab \tab \tab Blackened Open Face Helmet
\par Read/Write\tab \tab \tab \tab Horse, saddle and harness
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab \tab Symbol (value 2 GC)
\par Speak Add Language - Necromantic\tab Club*
\par Spec Weapon - Stave
\par Strike to Stun
\par 
\par * - In times of conflict with the undead, the templar receives a sword and crossbow instead.
\par {\b\i\f32\fs28 
\par \page The Goodfellas (Ranald)}{\b\i\fs28 
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Background -}{\b\i  }Friends of the downtrodden and fighters against oppression and tyranny, the \tab Goodfellas follow their gods aspect as the Protector. As templars they 
\par \tab strongly believe in and adhere to their cults strictures and avoid killing except in self \tab 
defense or the defense of others. trickery and subterfuge are their weapons and they Take pains to try and expose corrupt officials and make life difficult for those that exploit the weak and poor. They work in close cooperation with Ranald\rquote s \tab 
demagogues (the {\i Rabble Rousers}) and also protect the \lquote honest\rquote  thieves from capture and discovery.
\par \tab 
Setting traps and leading enemies to them has become an artform for these resourceful people, but the traps are rarely lethal, being usually humiliating and uncomfortable for the victim, with favourites incorporating such elements as raw sewage, paint, t
ar and feathers, slippery oil and nets. A favourite trick is to lead corrupt watchmen on a chase through several such traps that culminate in a public place. As an
y Goodfella will tell you, the humorous aspect helps lift the spirits of the oppressed. Breaking into official buildings to steal incriminating documents, plant false orders or plans and lay traps are also a mainstay.
\par \tab Due to their stand against violence and corruption they have on occasion come into \tab 
conflict with local crime lords, assassins and thugs whose violent activities gives rogues a bad name, and the silent wars that ensue usually go unnoticed by the local populace.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Outsiders Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote I\rquote d have got away with it, if it weren\rquote t for them meddling rogues!\rquote 
\par  - }Rudolf Hummel (Corrupt official being taken for trial).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab Very few people outside of the cult of Ranald or without informed ties to the Underworld are aware that this Order exists, so reactions are generally normal. However, those that are aware of them have varying reactions, from the 
\tab wholehearted support of the downtrodden to the hatred of the oppressor.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote Hey, you big, ugly, puss-bag! Do you recognise this sword?
\par \tab Yeah! It\rquote s yours! Come and get it you wallowing mud pig!\rquote 
\par } - Gottfried der Kat (Goodfella, provoking a chase).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The Goodfella is generally a passionate, intelligent and gregarious individual, full \tab of empathy for the underdog and a strong sense of humour. Their humour is \tab 
sometimes a mask used to hide the feelings of sorrow they feel for the oppressed.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Requirements -} In addition to the usual requirements, candidates must also fulfil the following:
\par \tab  - The candidate must hail from the lower classes.
\par \tab  - The candidate must never have committed cold blooded murder.
\par \tab  - The candidate must have completed the general thief career.
\par \tab  - Ranald demands no Oath, knowing that rules exist to be broken.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Symbols, Colours and Dress -} 
\par 
\par \tab 
The Goodfellas dress completely nondescript, the better to evade capture and avoid notice. Their symbol is cunningly interwoven and hidden, and they only carry a dagger as a weapon, with it usually being worn at the belt, as with many normal citizens.

\par {\b\i Advance Scheme -} 
\par {\b\i\fs24 Goodfella of Ranald
\par }{\b M  WS  BS  S  T   W    I   A  Dex  Ld  Int  Cl  WP  Fel
\par }+1 +20 +20 +1 +1 +4 +30 +1 +40 +10 +20 +20 +10 +20
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Acrobatics*\tab \tab \tab Nondescript clothing
\par Acting\tab \tab \tab \tab Lockpicks
\par Cult Doctrine - Ranald\tab \tab Several disguises
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Dagger (weighted to enable throwing)
\par Disguise\tab \tab \tab d6 GC
\par Dodge Blow
\par Flee!
\par Pick Lock
\par Read/Write
\par Scale Sheer Surface
\par Set Trap
\par Shadowing
\par Spec Weapon - Thrown
\par Spot Trap
\par Strike to Stun
\par 
\par * {\i Acrobatics} - For increased jumping, leaping and breakfall only.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par {\b\i\fs28 
\par }{\b\i\f32\fs28 The Guardians of the Dove (Shallya)}{\b\i\fs28 
\par 
\par }{\b\i Background -}{\b\i\fs28  }The Guardians of the Dove act as orderlies, and guards to hospices and \tab travelling clerics. They often enter areas rife with disease or war, but must still \tab 
adhere to the cults prohibition against killing. Due to these constraints they have \tab become experts of subdual combat, and only ever fight with intention to harm or kill \tab 
when they come into conflict with the followers of Nurgle. In these rare cases they \tab give their aggression full vent, and their wrath is terrible to behold...
\par \tab They avoid the use of ranged weapons (save for the net) because they can all to \tab easily harm an innocent bystander. In their role as \lquote passive warriors\rquote  they are \tab allowed the use of the shield.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Outsiders Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote Brave but weak\rquote 
\par  - }Olaf (Templar of the White Wolf).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The Guardians of the Dove have an almost perfect reputation, for all at one time or \tab another require healing. Everyone holds them in at least fair regard, and only the \tab followers of Nurgle really hate them.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote Please leave the area for it would pain me to have to hurt you\rquote 
\par } - Bianka (Guardian of the Dove).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The typical Guardian of the Dove is a peaceful, caring and deeply empathic \tab individual, combining bravery and strong will in an insurmountable package.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - All candidates must have been initiates.
\par \tab  - All must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 Shallya, sweet Lady of Mercy, Peace and Healing, I (name) your devoted follower, 
\par swear upon my heart with passion to serve your merciful and loving strictures fully:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent-1276\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}{\i\fs20   to never take an intelligent life, save for the followers of Nurgle, even in self defence }
\par \pard \qj\fi1418\widctlpar {\i\fs20 or the defence of others;
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent-1418\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}{\i\fs20   to never refuse aid or healing to one in genuine need or who comes as a supplicant;}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20   to protect the weak, sick and innocent;}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20  to protect the cult, its followers and holdings with my life.}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par {\b\i\f32 Symbols, Colours and Dress -} 
\par 
\par \tab The Guardians favour plain, unornamented white tabards and cowls. Upon initiation \tab they receive a silver medallion with inlayed white enamel dove and an inlayed red \tab enamel \tab 
blood droplet. Their shield features a larger version of the image as a crest.
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar {\b\i\f32 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Advance Scheme -}{\f32  
\par }{\b\i\f32\fs24 Guardians of the Dove}{\b\i\f51\fs24 
\par }{\b  WS BS  S   T  W    I    A Dex  Ld  Int   Cl  WP Fel
\par }+20 +20 +1 +3 +6 +20 +2 +20 +20 +20 +30 +20 +20
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Cult Doctrine - Shallya\tab \tab White cowl and tabard
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Stave
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Shield
\par Heal Wounds\tab \tab \tab Net
\par Immunity to Disease\tab \tab Symbol
\par Read/Write\tab \tab \tab d4+1 manacles
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab Horse, saddle and harness
\par Spec Weapon - Net\tab \tab Slingbag with herbs, bandages, and needle and thread.
\par Spec Weapon - Stave\tab \tab d6 GC
\par Strike to Stun
\par Wrestling
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32\fs28 \page Order of the Flaming Scimitar (Ormazd)
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f32 Background -}{\b\i\f32\fs28  }The arabian Order of the Flaming Scimitars was founded during the Crusades \tab 
against the failing Constantinian Empire during 1060 I.C. and have been at the forefront of every war against cult enemies since that time. 
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Base of Operations -} Mendai, Araby
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Outsiders Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote True fanatics\rquote 
\par  - }Olaf (Templar of the White Wolf).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab 
The Flaming Scimitars are beloved by the populace of Araby for they embody the virtues of bravery, vigour and strength of faith that they all aspire to. To outsiders they are little more than fanatics and the Knights of the Cleansing Flame hate them with
 a vengeance.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote Death to the Infidel!!\rquote 
\par  - }Akim al Rashmir (Flaming Scimitar).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The typical Flaming Scimitar is devout and fanatical in the extreme, and take their \tab duties with a seriousness bordering on painful.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - this Order is only open to men.
\par \tab  - the candidate must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 Ormazd! Lord of All! I (name) your most humble servant swear before the sun and 
\par sands to serve and uphold your holy laws! No infidel or temptation will sway me, and 
\par should I fail, may the wind-driven sand sear my flesh, may sweet water never reach my 
\par lips, and may my blood stain the sand.}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par {\b\i\f32 Symbols, Colours and Dress -} 
\par 
\par \tab The Flaming Scimitars wear light chain mail with black cloth trappings. Their \tab shields feature the flaming scimitar and they all wear gold sun medallions inset \tab with a yellow, red or orange gemstone.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Notes -} 
\par \tab The Flaming Scimitars are not knights, nor do they adhere to knightly principles, and none of them hail from the nobility.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Advance Scheme -} 
\par {\b\i\f32\fs24 Flaming Scimitar
\par }{\b WS  BS  S   T  W    I    A Dex  Ld  Int   Cl  WP
\par }+30 +30 +2 +2 +6 +20 +2 +20 +20 +10 +30 +30
\par 
\par {\b\i\f32 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Cult Doctrine - Ormazd\tab \tab Sleeved Mail Shirt
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Shield
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Open-Face Helmet
\par Frenzied Attack\tab \tab \tab Scimitar
\par Marksmanship\tab \tab \tab Dagger
\par Ride - Horse\tab \tab \tab Symbol (value 40GC)
\par Strike Mighty Blow\tab \tab Shortbow, quiver and arrows
\par Strike to Injure\tab \tab \tab Light Warhorse, saddle and harness
\par Strike to Stun\tab \tab \tab d6 GC
\par Trick Riding
\par {\b\i\f51\fs28 \page Talons of the Wild (Taal)
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f51 Background - 
\par }\tab The Talons are a devout Order of warriors dedicated to Taal and would today be regarded as eco-warriors. They exist in the wilds, living off the land and working in cooperation with the Society of the Bear to defend the wilds from the excess destr
uction of the intelligent races.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Outsiders Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote Damn them! They stop me making a living!\rquote 
\par  - }Hugo (woodsman caught cutting down too many trees).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The Talons have made themselves many enemies as they constantly conflict with greedy farmers, woodsmen and goblinoids. They maintain cordial relations with the druids of the Old Faith and a few communities of Wood Elves.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote You cut the limbs from an ancient and sacred tree when there is dead wood 
\par aplenty. Payment in kind I believe\rquote 
\par  - }Ursula (Talon of the Wild proceeding to cut the limbs from a defiler).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The Talons are concerned and good people, secure in the knowledge that nature provides all, and needn\rquote t be raped. However, they are vengeful and vicious in the extreme when facing defilers.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - The candidate must be a devoted initiate of Taal.
\par \tab  - The candidate must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 Taal, Lord of the Green, and Master of Beasts, I (name) swear before you, standing in 
\par the sacred realm of plenty, to serve as a defender of your realm, a Talon of the Wild.
\par To adhere to the strictures you impose:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent-1276\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}{\i\fs20   to protect nature from the excesses of man and all intelligent species;}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}  {\i\fs20 to take only what is required to live;}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20   to defend your sacred ground and followers.}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par {\b\i\f51 Symbols, Colours and Dress -} 
\par 
\par \tab The Talons wear functional outdoors clothing in natural browns and greens. They \tab wear full leather armour branded with the symbols of Taal. They favour bows, hand axes, clubs and spears. The tanning process they u
se is non-toxic using animals brains, and vegetable oil, with the residue being edible. the resulting leather is quite as smooth but is serviceable. (Such a process is used by the Australian Aborigines).
\par \tab They also favour camouflage war-paints in the style of animal markings to make them look more fierce. 
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 \page Advance Scheme - 
\par }{\b\i\f51\fs24 Talon of the Wild
\par }{\b  WS BS  S   T  W    I    A Dex  Ld  Int   Cl  WP Fel
\par }+20 +20 +2 +3 +6 +20 +2 +20 +10 +20 +30 +20 +10
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Skills\tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Animal Care\tab \tab \tab Full branded leather armour
\par Concealment Rural\tab \tab Wooden shield
\par Cult Doctrine - Taal\tab \tab Hand axe, spear, club
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Bow and ammunition
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Horse, blanket and harness
\par Follow Trail
\par Identify Plant
\par Orientation
\par Ride - Horse
\par Secret Language - Ranger
\par Secret Signs - Woodsman
\par Silent Move Rural
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par Strike to Injure
\par Strike to Stun
\par \page {\b\i\f51\fs28 Order of the Thundering Tempest (Manann)
\par 
\par }{\b\i\f51 Background -}{\b\i\f51\fs28  
\par \tab }While the priests of Manann represent His differing aspects, the Tempests are concerned purely with his wrath. They have a notorious reputation and few are a match for them on land, and woe to those who face them at sea.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Base of Operations -} 
\par \tab Their largest base can be found in Marienburg, but they can be found in many coastal \tab settlements.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Outsiders Opinions -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote Nasty and vicious types they are\rquote }
\par  - Johannes Bootmann (Citizen of Marienburg).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The Order has an infamous reputation for fearlessness, arrogance, temper and thirst for vengeance, causing them to be avoided by most sane people. Despite their \tab 
reputation few would see them leave, as they are stalwart defenders of many coastal communities, and enemies of the Dark Elves (who they often encounter on the high seas) and pirates.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Typical Attitude -} 
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i \lquote Turn the Seas Red!!\rquote }
\par  - Leopold (Thundering Tempest shouting their famous battle cry).
\par 
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar \tab The Tempests are mostly honourable individuals who grieve the poor reputation they have. What many do not realise is they are required to uphold certain ideals which may be unpopular (vindictive anger and quick tempe
r), as that is the way of the sea. They can be quite jovial, but are passionate and quick to change. The majority hail from the lower classes (specifically those with maritime experience), and out of a sense of payment (or punishment) take up the life of 
a templar. The stories vary from individual to individual - some have had a close call with drowning and feel they \tab 
were spared, others hear the calling of the sea and understand it too well not to join. Whatever the reason, they dedicate their lives to Manann, following his strictures fanatically.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Requirements -} 
\par \tab  - The candidate must have completed a sea-going career.
\par \tab  - The candidate must swear the following Oath:
\par 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 Manann! Lord of the Raging Sea! I (name) swear, upon my blood and honour 
\par to serve you unfailingly in this worthy Order of the Thundering Tempest, 
\par observing your sacred laws:
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}}\pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent-1276\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}{\i\fs20   to uphold the ideals of the raging sea!}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20   to protect the Deep from the depredations of those without respect!}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20   to protect your holdings and devoted followers!}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs22\lang2057 \'b7\tab}{\i\fs20   to uphold your strictures with my life!}
\par \pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\fs20 Hear me Manann, for this is my Oath!
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar {\b\i\f51 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Symbols, Colours and Dress - 
\par 
\par }\tab Their symbol, normally worn on a tunic, is that of a whirlpool in the air with bolts of \tab 
forked lightning coming from it, on a dark blue-green background. Other symbols include a sea serpent entwined on a sword, a shark with an open maw, and a wave in the shape of a fist.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Advance Scheme - 
\par }{\b\i\f51\fs24 Order of the Thundering Tempests
\par }{\b  WS BS   S  T  W    I    A Dex  Ld  Int  Cl   WP Fel
\par }+30 +30 +2 +2 +6 +20 +2 +20 +10 +20 +30 +20 +10
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Skills \tab \tab \tab \tab Trappings}
\par Cult Doctrine - Manann\tab \tab Full leather armour
\par Disarm\tab \tab \tab \tab Sleeved mail coat*
\par Dodge Blow\tab \tab \tab Hand weapon (usually a trident)
\par Navigation\tab \tab \tab Wooden shield
\par Row\tab \tab \tab \tab Symbol\tab 
\par Sailing\tab \tab \tab \tab 2d6 GC
\par Scale Sheer Surface
\par Sea Lore
\par Secret Language - Battle
\par Spec Weapon - Thrown*
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par Strike to Injure
\par Strike to Stun
\par Swim
\par 
\par * {\i Spec Weapon - Thrown}. Used for grappling hooks (boarding) and the trident.
\par * {\i Sleeved Mail Coat.} Normally only worn on land.
\par \pard \qc\widctlpar \page {\b\i\f51\fs28 - Knightly Weapons - 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar 
The arsenal of the knight was fairly varied, but most of their weapons were subtle variations of more common varieties. The knight would commonly be armed with a lance, an edged hand weapon (such as a sword or axe), a blunt hand weapon (such as a mace or 
flail) and a stilletto to perform the {\i coup de grace}.
\par \tab Maces showed a great variety of head shapes including spiked, studded, smooth, flanged, and shaped (like a fist or head for example).
\par \tab While trained in their use, not all knights carried 2 handed weapons, but when they did they favoured the 2 handed sword above all others. They would rarely carry a 2 handed flail for such weapons were associated with the peasantry.
\par \tab A popular Bretonnian variation of the 2 handed sword is the Flamberge, which is slightly shorter and features a wavy blade.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 New Weapons -} 
\par {\b Weapon\tab \tab Cost\tab Enc\tab Avail\tab Rules
\par }{\i Knights Stiletto\tab }\tab 6GC+\tab 10\tab Scarce\tab As dagger
\par {\i Flamberge}\tab \tab 45GC\tab 225\tab Scarce\tab As 2 Handed
\par {\i Horseman\rquote s Hammer}\tab 10GC\tab 75\tab Rare\tab As hand weapon
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 The Lance (revised) -} 
\par {\b Weapon\tab \tab Init\tab To Hit\tab Dam\tab Parry
\par }{\i Lance}\tab \tab \tab +20\tab  +10/ - \tab   */ - \tab -20/+10
\par {\i To Hit} - +10 in a joust, standard otherwise.
\par {\i Damage} - S + (half the mount\rquote s M, round up) in a charge. Standard otherwise.
\par {\i Parry} - -20% in vs a charging lance. +10% vs a stationary lance.
\par 
\par {\b\i\f51 Mounted Charging Attacks -} 
\par \tab A character attacking a foe while passing on a charging steed adds half the mount\rquote s M (round up) to his damage roll. Only one such attack can be made on a single foe in a single pass. The attacker suffers a -10WS penalty to hit due t
o the speed.
\par 
\par \pard \qc\widctlpar {\b\i\f51\fs28 
\par  - New Skill - 
\par 
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar {\b\i\f51 Sense Deception (created by Mr Whippy) - 
\par }\tab The ability to detect lies by inflection of the voice and other physical signs is highly valued by the Justicars and other members of Verena\rquote s cult. The cultist confronts the subject and asks them numerous \lquote test\rquote 
 questions. This is to gauge the normal reactions of the \lquote liar\rquote .
\par \tab 
The cultist then proceeds to discuss the matter being investigated. Falsehoods can be detected as the cultist enters an almost trance-like state and analyses the words of the test subject. Tests are done against the characters force of will, thus WP is us
ed. The whole process can take upto an hour.
\par 
\par Tests are as follows:
\par +10 if the subject is afraid of the cultist (i.e. where Intimidation is used)
\par +10 if the subject is known to have completed any Rogue career
\par -5 if the subject is an initiate of Verena
\par -10 if the subject is a Cleric or Justicar of Verena
\par -5 (cumulative) if the subject uses acting, charm or wit
\par +5 if the subject uses Blather (because it\rquote s a sure sign of hiding something)
\par -5/+5 if the subject attempts to seduce the cultist (depending on the cultist in question)
\par \pard \qj\fi1276\widctlpar {\i\f32\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar 
\par }