Sheilahs Firebug:

Elemental 

Spell Level: 1
Magic Points: 3
Range: Special
Duration: 1d4 rounds per level of caster
Ingredients: The wing of a firefly

This spell is actually a Elemental cousin to the spell Produce small 
creature.  When cast a small firefly grows from the ingredient and 
begins to flutter around.  The bug looks and acts like a normal firefly. 
  When the firefly lands and his tail light glows, a small magical flame 
is produced and whatever the bug is currently on catches fire.  The bug 
will fly to a new destenation and land there each round that it is in 
existance.  The small fires can quickly grow in size and become out of 
control. 

The fires set by the bug will continue to burn until extinguished or 
until the material on fire is consumed.


Sheilahs Firehawk

Elemental
Spell Level: 4
Magic Points: 20
Range: special
Duration:  1d6 Rounds
Ingredients:  Tailfeather of a hawk, the white of an egg

This spell summons a large hawk.  The hawk is mentally linked with the 
caster and will obey all commands given.  The special feature of this 
hawk is that the hawk will "dive bomb" any target that it is commanded 
to do so.  As the hawk pulls up from the dive a jet of searing flame is 
released along the hawks path of flight.  The flame will cover a 10 ft. 
width by 1d100 ft. length.  Anyone caught in the flame suffers 1d10 
wounds at strength 8 and 4d8 wounds on flammable targets.  The flame is 
magical and will not stop burning until it has burned away everything 
underneath its flame.  

Creatures that are subject to fear of fire will have to make the 
appropriate psychological test.  A victim of the bombing run may attempt 
an initiative test to dodge the full effects of the blast and suffer 
only half damage.
