 A new magic system based on Robert Jordans' "Wheel of Time" series, 
by Ian Ward.  Version 3b.  (C) Ian Ward, 1996.

 This is a LONG (~50-60K) document and the tables are intended to be 
viewed in a font with constant character width (such as 'Courier New' 
in Windows).  Comments are contained in [[double square brackets]].

>INTRODUCTION

 I have long considered that the magic system that WFRP uses was 
lacking something, the ability to do almost ANYTHING, on the spot, 
that a standard list of spells curtails.  Reading the "Wheel of Time" 
series by Robert Jordan gave me some ideas for an alternative system.  
[[Brief version history at end]]

 I considered carefully before going ahead and writing up a set of 
rules and background for a new magic sub-system in WFRP.  For one 
thing, the present system is so tied in with chaos that I would have 
to find a way to tie any rules I wrote into the same system to make 
it a working part of the WFRP magic landscape.  Also, I doubt any new 
system could ever hope to replace the existing system, only 
supplement it to offer new magical options to Warhammer PCs and NPCs.

 Relatively freeform magic systems such as the type I am suggesting 
here are much more difficult to GM than the existing spell-based 
type, but I believe that the rules I present here are logical and 
workable.

>SPELLWEAVERS

 Conventional sorcerous magic, as used by wizards, uses the magical 
energy that seeps into all corners of the Warhammer world from the 
polar warp gates, while clerics rely on their god for magical 
abilities.  There also exists a class of magicians who manipulate the 
warp energies directly.  These are the Spellweavers.

 Spellweavers' minds touch the warp directly, much like the psykers 
of WH40K.  Because very few mortals have the mental strength to 
perceive the warp as it truly is and stay sane, spellweavers are 
taught to perceive it as a huge tangle of threads, each thread being 
one of the elements earth, air, fire, water or spirit.  Their 
manipulation of the warp temporarily untangles these threads and 
weaves them into meaningful patterns that produce magical effects on 
the material plane.  Spellweavers call this process 'weaving' or more 
usually 'channelling' - a contraction of 'channelling the will'  
("She channelled the lamp lit" sounds better than "She weaved the 
lamp lit" or "She spellweaved the lamp lit", IMHO).  Trained 
spellweavers have their mind tuned to the warp and can sense these 
ordered weaves when in the vicinity, with the disordered tangle of 
chaos a constant background 'noise'.

 Not surprisingly, spellweavers are the most knowledgeable of the 
magical professions on matters concerning warpspace and have gathered 
a great deal of information on the warp and its assorted inhabitants, 
especially those who would seek to enter the material world through 
an unguarded spellweavers' mind.  Having to deal with the warp on so 
close a level, spellweavers' sanities are understandably weakened, 
such that all cool tests to resist insanity are taken with a -10 
modifier.  They do however, get a +10 on Cl and WP based tests when 
dealing with warp creatures (usually demons and their kin).

 The magical effects produced by a weave vary with the exact pattern 
of the weave and the types of thread present.  Each type of thread 
embodies the qualities and/or physical properties of that particular 
element.  Spirit, the least intuitive of these, embodies the mind and 
all associated with it, as well as guiding or linking the effects of 
other elements to specific individuals or groups via their thought 
patterns.

 For example, air could be used both to manipulate the air around us 
or give something the property of being light.  Water could cause a 
river to become animated, induce tears in someone or represent 
emotions such as love or forgiveness.  Fire could represent part of 
the destructive nature of a weave, produce heat or light, or 
represent the emotions of hatred, fear, etc.  Earth could typically 
serve to carve stone, make something heavy or represent steadfastness 
and solidity in some way.

>CREATING A WEAVE

 To successfully create a weave for a given purpose, you must:

 (1) Have the will to manipulate the threads properly (WP)
 (2) Weave the threads into the right pattern (Int), and
 (3) Have the magical strength to do it (MPs).

 Occasionally, the spellweaver loses control of the threads, which 
tangle tightly around the spellweavers link to the warp.  This cuts 
the spellweavers link and she loses all spellweaving powers.  Never 
again can she become a spellweaver.  This is known as cutoff (burnout 
in Jordans' books) and has the further effect of a mental shock.  The 
character gaining 1D3 insanity points on a failed cool test.

 Spellweavers use MPs to produce their magical effects.  More on 
gaining MPs later.  They lose MPs as they manipulate the warp and 
regain them by meditation and with the passage of time.

 To create a weave, a player must first know what she wants to do, 
what elements she intends to use to do it and HOW those elements will 
do it.  The GM should accept any plausible combination of elements 
and how they interact, and decide on a suitable difficulty modifier 
and MP cost (a suggested system of modifiers and related MPs is in 
the sample weaves section later on).

 Next, the PC has to roll against her WP to control the threads.  
This is modified by the difficulty modifier and by any other 
modifiers the GM deems appropriate.  If failed, the weave is flawed 
and has no effect other than causing the PC to lose the weaves' MPs.  
The flawed weave is quickly unpicked by the tides of the warp.  If 
the roll is failed and is a double (11, 22 ... 99, 00), the effect is 
more pronounced: the threads tangle and the spellweaver is cutoff as 
above.

 If the WP test is passed, the PC must satisfy condition (2).  She 
rolls on her Int, modified by the difficulty modifier and any others 
the GM thinks appropriate.  If passed, the weave does what it was 
intended to do.  If failed, the weave produces an effect, but not the 
intended one.  The GM should decide what happens according to the 
degree of failure, type of threads present, the players' original 
intent, etc.  Whether the Int test is passed or not, the PC loses the 
number of MPs decided by the GM.  If the failed Int roll is a double, 
things have VERY badly wrong and the GM can have a bit of fun making 
the PC REALLY suffer...  An optional rule for possible daemonic 
possession on a fumbled Int roll will be covered later.

 Spellweavous effects require a variable amount of time to create, 
specified by the GM according to the difficulty of the task.  For 
examples of things that can be done by a weave, their (suggested) MP 
cost, difficulty modifiers and time taken to make the weaves, please 
see the end of this document.

 The time any magical effect lasts for is up to the GM.  The player 
should specify an approximate time period for the effect when the 
weave is created and the GM give an appropriate modifier to the Int 
roll, as part of the difficulty modifier.  This represents the 
character weaving the pattern tightly enough so as not to untangle 
(and hence stop the magical effect) for the time stated.  The MP cost 
of the weave should be similarly modified.

 >>POOLING

 Pooling is the joining of several spellweavers' wills into one task.  
Those pooling must concentrate their minds upon lending magical aid 
to one spellweaver in the pooling with the Pool Power skill, and who 
channels the pooled power.  This person is called the Pooler.  Each 
spellweaver contributing to the pool must be within 5 yards of the 
Pooler.  The effective will power of the Pooler (Pooled Will Power, 
or PWP) becomes the average of those in the pool, plus 10 per member.  
This is used in the test to control the threads, and is modified as 
before.  The Poolers' effective magic point total (Pooled Magic 
Points, or PMP) becomes the average of those in the pool, plus 10 per 
member.  A failed PWP roll in the case of a pooled weave indicates 
automatic cutoff for the Pooler, while the MPs of the other members 
drop to zero.  With all the members willing an effect to happen, it 
WILL happen, good or bad!

 If the PWP roll is successful, roll on the Poolers Int as before, 
again modifying for the difficulty of the task.  If failed, have the 
magical effect misfire as before, but on a larger scale.  If passed, 
the effect is as wanted.  Either way, the MP cost of the task is 
shared equally between those in the pool.

 For example, four spellweavers with WPs of 40, 43, 49 and 62 are 
pooling their wills.  The Pooler has 39 MPs and the others have 6, 17 
and 28 respectively.  The PWP of the group is 49+40=89 while the 
groups PMP total is 23+40=63.  If the cost of the weave is 20 MP, the 
final MP totals of each member are 1, 12, 23 and 34.

 >>SPELLWEAVERS AND ARMOUR

 Spellweavers suffer the same limitations regarding armour as do 
Wizards and Clerics.  They expend 2 MP extra when channelling, for 
every point of armour worn, including shields.

 >>INTERRUPTED CHANNELLING

 Channelling demands close attention to where each thread fits into 
the weave, and hence concentration.  Spellweavers can move no faster 
than the cautious rate while channelling and cannot use any damage 
reducing skills or attack, although they may parry once per round, at 
most.

 If a spellweaver is interrupted while channelling (eg. someone hits 
her) and she fails a WP test with the same modifiers as the weave 
control test, she loses concentration and the weave has no effect.  
She loses all the weaves' MPs.

 Characters who are pooling must also keep their concentration.  For 
every pool member who is interrupted, roll on unmodified WP.  For 
each failed test, there is a cumulative 5% chance that the weave will 
fail as if through a failed PWP test.  If the Pooler is interrupted, 
test as though he were a lone spellweaver.

 For example, the same four pooling spellweavers as above are 
attacked by a party of Orcs while working on a weave with modifier 
+20.  All four are hit and each spellweaver in the pool must roll to 
keep her concentration.  The Pooler (WP 62) rolls 67 and the others 
(WP 40, 43 and 49) roll 54, 89 and 31 respectively.  Thus, the Pooler 
passes (due to the +20 weave modifier) as does one of the other 
members, but the other two fail.  Rolling 76 for the 10% chance, the 
GM lets the weave be completed before telling the controlling player 
one of the members lost concentration and the weave does nothing.

 >>MAGIC POINTS AND LACK OF THEM

 If a spellweaver passes the Int test in creating a weave, but finds 
the MP cost higher than her current MPs, she has insufficient magical 
energy to perform the task and the weave is incomplete.  Her MP total 
drops to zero and the weave has no effect.

 If pooling, the MP cost must not exceed the PMP total of the group.  
If this occurs, all the pool members MPs fall to zero and the weave 
has no effect.  If after, any pool members' MPs are too low for their 
share of the MP cost, they are reduced to zero MP and the remaining 
"unpaid" MPs are taken from the Pooler.  If this takes the Pooler 
below zero, her total becomes negative and the shortfall must be 
"repaid" before she can spellweave again.

 Taking the example of the same four spellweavers as above, if the MP 
cost is raised to 40, the first spellweaver has insufficient MPs and 
the 4 MP shortfall is taken from the Poolers total to give 0, 7, 18 
and 25 MP respectively.

 >>REGAINING MAGIC POINTS

 Spellweavers regain MPs in two ways:

  (1) Gradually as a result of 'soaking up' magical energy from the 
free energy of the warp.  The spellweaver regains 1 MP every 24 
hours.
  (2) By meditation.  See the description of the Meditation skill in 
the WFRP rulebook.

>SPELLWEAVER CAREERS

 >>SPELLWEAVERS IN SOCIETY

 Spellweavers' direct use of warp energies has not gone unnoticed by 
some witchhunters, who distrust spellweavers even more than they do 
the rest of the magical fraternity.  The ones who do not know of this 
treat them as they do other magicians.  Spellweavers know 
witchhunters' reactions to their abilities and so take care to 
conceal their true profession to those outside their circle of trust.  
They usually assume the disguise of a travelling herbalist, and learn 
herbal skills as part of their training, being useful as well as a 
good disguise.  Indeed, advanced spellweavers become quite proficient 
in the arts of herbal medicine, more so than the simple herbalists 
they pretend to be.

 Spellweavers who announce their true profession are perceived by the 
majority of society to be about the same as conventional magicians 
and treated more or less the same - fear and/or distrust in rural 
areas and more-or-less tolerated in urban areas.  Scholars who know 
of the source of spellweavous magic are usually cautious when near a 
known spellweaver.  Some GMs may like the idea of a spellweavers' 
guild with branches in the larger towns and cities of the Empire and 
Brettonia, based in Talabheim.

 Spellweavers maintain cordial, if strained, relations with the other 
magical professions, and are openly distrusted by clerics because of 
their close relationship with the warp.  Followers of law, and to a 
lesser extent good, are particularly distrustful.  Many wizards are 
distrustful of them but at the same time respectful of their 
mastership of the warp energies.  Relations are best with 
elementalists.

 >>SPELLWEAVER CAREERS AND ADVANCEMENT

 All spellweavers begin their training as a Novice.  After this come 
the four levels of the Spellweaver career.  Changing career up the 
ladder gains the spellweaver MPs and requires an increasing number of 
EPs.

  +---------------+---------+----------+----------+--------+
  | Advancing to  |   MPs   | Max. MPs | Ave. MPs |  EPs   |
  +---------------+---------+----------+----------+--------+
  | Novice        |  1D4+4  |     8    |     6    |  100   |
  | Level I       |  2D4+4  |  to 20   |  -> 15   |  300   |
  | Level II      |  2D4+4  |  to 32   |  -> 24   |  500   |
  | Level III     |  2D4+4  |  to 46   |  -> 33   |  700   |
  | Level IV      |  2D4+4  |  to 58   |  -> 42   |  900   |
  +---------------+---------+----------+----------+--------+

 No character who has been a wizard of any kind may enter the Novice 
career.  The two types of magic are entirely different and use 
incompatible approaches that cannot be known side-by-side.  
Similarly, no PC who is or has been a spellweaver of any level 
(including Novice) may enter a Wizards or Alchemists apprentice 
career.  Gods may or may not allow their clerics/initiates to become 
a Novice, or a Novice to become an initiate, depending on the 
individual god.  If doubtful, the god is respectful of spellweavers' 
abilities but disallows her followers from having them. 

 >>CAREER DESCRIPTIONS

 >>>NOVICE (Basic)

 ADVANCE SCHEME
  +---------+------------------------------+---------------------+
  |         | M WS  BS  S  T  W  I   A Dex | Ld  Int Cl  WP  Fel |
  +---------+------------------------------+---------------------+
  |  Novice | - -   -   -  -  +2 -   - -   | -   +10 +10 +10  -  |
  +---------+------------------------------+---------------------+

 DESCRIPTION
 The Novice career is the spellweaver equivalent of the wizards' 
apprentice.  Novices spend their time mainly studying spellweavery 
and tuning their minds to the warp energies, but must learn herbcraft 
as well.  Most tire of the intense study while some, for one reason 
or another, give up spellweaving.  Either way, few make it to the 
next level of study.

 SKILLS
(N)=New skill
  Heal Wound
  Herb Lore
  Read/Write
  Secret Language - Classical
  Sense Weave (+)

 TRAPPINGS
  Dried medicinal herbs
  Pestle and mortar
  Book on herbal healing
  Book on basic spellweavery

 CAREER ENTRIES
  Druid
  Herbalist

 CAREER EXITS
  Charlatan
  Druid
  Entertainer - Bunko artist
  Herbalist
  Scribe (those with R/W only)
  Spellweaver level 1
  Physicians' student (those with Heal Wounds only)

 >>>SPELLWEAVER (Advanced)

 ADVANCE SCHEMES
  +---------+------------------------------+---------------------+
  |         | M WS  BS  S  T  W  I   A Dex | Ld  Int Cl  WP  Fel |
  +---------+------------------------------+---------------------+
  |  Lvl 1  | - -   -   -  -  +2 +10 -  -  | +10 +10 +10 +10  -  |
  |  Lvl 2  | - -   +10 -  +1 +3 +20 - +10 | +10 +20 +20 +20 +10 |
  |  Lvl 3  | - +10 +10 +1 +1 +4 +20 - +10 | +20 +20 +20 +20 +10 |
  |  Lvl 4  | - +10 +10 +1 +2 +4 +30 - +20 | +20 +30 +30 +30 +20 |
  +---------+------------------------------+---------------------+
 [[They get BS before WS as they sometimes have to 'manually' aim the 
effects of a weave and so improve this first.  The Fel advances are 
due to their practising the disguise of a herbalist]]

 DESCRIPTION
 This career represents the class of spellweavers that move on from 
the status of novice to learn more.  Only those who have passed 
through (and fully completed) the Novice career may enter this 
career. Spellweavers learn more herbcraft too, enhancing their most 
common 'public' career as well.  Each level of the spellweaver must 
be fully completed (all advances, skills, etc.) before a PC can 
advance to the next level.
 
 SKILLS
(N)=New skill
(R)=Refer to notes on skill later
  LEVEL ONE
  Astronomy
  Cure Disease
  Meditation
  Secret Language - Spellweaver (R)
  Spellweave (N)

  LEVEL TWO
  Arcane Language - Druidic
  Evaluate
  Identify Plants
  Prepare Poisons
  Sense Power (N)

  LEVEL THREE
  Arcane Language - Spellweaver (N)
  Demon Lore
  Orientation (R)
  Rune Lore

  LEVEL FOUR
  Dowsing (R)
  Identify Undead (R)
  Manufacture Drugs (Herbal)
  Pool Power (N)

 TRAPPINGS
  LEVEL ONE
  All-purpose dried herbs
  D3 books on advanced spellweavery

  LEVEL TWO
  None

  LEVEL THREE
  25% chance of one arcane tome

  LEVEL FOUR
  75% chance of D2 arcane tomes

 CAREER ENTRIES
  Novice
  Spellweaver of previous level

 CAREER EXITS
  Charlatan
  Spellweaver of next level

 >>NOTES ON NEW (N) OR SPECIAL (R) SKILLS

 >>>ARCANE LANGUAGE - SPELLWEAVER (N)

 This is the specialised magical language spellweavers have developed 
to record the construction of particularly useful forms of weave.  
Occasionally, a spellweaver devotes her life to recording the weaves 
in use in her time to print, and such tomes are occasionally, but 
rarely, found.  Most are in the libraries of highly advanced 
spellweavers.  Such tomes are ALWAYS written in AL-Spellweaver.  A 
spellweaver referring to an arcane tome when channelling receives a 
+20 modifier to the WP and Int tests (assuming the tome covers the 
weave being used).

 >>>DOWSING (R)

 This ability develops through the mind becoming used to the 'feel' 
of water.  The spellweaver becomes able to probe outwards with her 
mind to locate the nearest source.  Some spellweavers carry dowsing 
rods in order to try to mask the magical nature of this ability.

 >>>IDENTIFY UNDEAD (R)

 Like Dowsing, this skill comes from the spellweaver becoming used to 
the 'feel' of an element, this time spirit.  The spellweaver can tell 
if a creature seen is undead if she is actively 'looking' and will 
tell when not actively 'looking' if she passes an I test.

 >>>ORIENTATION (R)

 Unlike the ability of rangers that develops through a well-travelled 
life, the related ability of spellweavers comes more from a gradually 
developing instinct that senses magnetic north, through the element 
of earth that produces the planets' magnetic field.  This skill too 
is based the 'feel' factor of an element (see Dowsing and Identify 
Undead, above).

 You could, if you wish, design other skills based on the 'feel' of 
other elements along the lines of Dowsing and Identify Undead, eg. a 
skill for sensing large underground spaces due to the large mass of 
air there, or perhaps some sort of low-resolution ability to sense 
heat based on sensing the fire element.

 >>>POOL POWER (N)

 When a group of spellweavers' pool their wills, at least one member 
of the group must possess this skill, usually the spellweaver 
controlling the pooled power (this person MUST have the skill).  
Please refer to the section on Pooling (above) for more details of 
the use of this skill.

 >>>SECRET LANGUAGE - SPELLWEAVER (R)

 In a society distrustful of magic and its users, and especially 
among the witchhunted spellweavers, a secret language for the 
initiated is almost inevitable.  Over the years this language has 
developed to fill that gap.

 >>>SENSE POWER (N)

 This skill represents the ability to sense the presence of 
spellweavous magic by touch: a spellweavers' version of Magic Sense.  
Although Sense Weave overshadows this skill in detecting the presence 
of spellweavous magics on objects/people (active magic), Sense Power 
allows a spellweaver to recognise a fellow spellweaver as such 
immediately on touch (passive or potential magic).

 >>>SENSE WEAVE (N)

 Spellweavers can tell when in the vicinity of weaved patterns in the 
warp as the background 'noise' of the warp gives way locally to 
regularly patterned weaves.  This skill gives the spellweaver the 
ability to sense weaves within WP yards, on a successful Int test.

 >>>SPELLWEAVE (N)

 This is the skill allowing the manipulation of the threads.  It is 
this skill that gives the ability right up to the top level of the 
spellweaver, although she must gradually gain in power by rising 
through the levels.

>SPELLWEAVOUS TERMS FOR THE CHAOS REALM

 Spellweavers use a number of terms for the realm from which they 
draw their powers.  Older spellweavers tend to use 'aethyr' or the 
newer spelling 'ether'.  Younger spellweavers are divided between the 
ones who use 'void' and those who prefer the radical new term 'warp'.  
Most tomes in common usage are extremely old and use the term 
'aethyr' throughout.  The term 'chaos' is sometimes used, but has bad 
associations with demons and the like(!), and usually avoided.  A 
spellweavers' mental link with the warp is formally called the 
'animus'.

>SPELLWEAVERS AND CHAOS

 >>THE WARPFIRE ELEMENT

 Given spellweavers' close relationship with the warp, the chaos 
powers take interest in giving spellweavous powers to some loyal 
cultists.  Chaos spellweavers get an extended usage of the fire 
element, the extended form of it known as warpfire.  Warpfire 
represents the pure destructive power of chaos, and as such, is a 
VERY powerful element, being necessary for things like creating chaos 
wormholes, daemonic summonings, etc.

 Warpfire is OFF LIMITS to spellweavers of any alignment other than 
chaotic.  You could allow evil characters to employ warpfire, but the 
first insanity they get as a result should be an alignment change to 
chaos.  In the rest of this section the term 'chaos spellweaver' 
applies equally to such characters.

 It is, however, very dangerous in its use.  For one thing, the 
spellweaver gains a magical disability (see WFRP rulebook) or chaotic 
mutation (see Realm of Chaos: Slaves to Darkness) immediately upon 
the first use of warpfire.  On that first use and on every use 
thereafter, the spellweaver must roll against cool, with a penalty 
equal to the MP cost of the weave, if the test is failed the 
character gains 1D3 insanity points.  The risk of madness is 
frequently only surpassed by the risk to life and limb if the weave 
has an effect...

 Chaos spellweavers become obsessed with learning the secrets of the 
warp, and delve ever deeper into its workings.  They develop one 
disability or D3 mutations on advancing to level one and on rising to 
each level thereafter, as well as gaining D3 insanity points at such 
times.

 >>FUMBLED INT AND DAEMONIC POSSESSION

 Spellweavers face the same risks of daemonic possession as do the 
psykers of WH40K.  An optional rule you could use concerns fumbled 
Int rolls: if the failed roll is a double (11, 22 ... 99, 00), a 
daemon or other warp entity has noticed how effective a gate to the 
material plane the spellweavers' mind could be, and has decided to 
infiltrate it (the idea being that the Int roll also represents the 
spellweaver taking care against such a possibility).

 Roll on the spellweavers' WP, and if this is failed a daemon takes 
over the spellweavers' body, according to the following tables:

  +-----+-------------+  +-----+-------------+
  | D10 | Daemon Type |  | D4  | Chaos Power |
  +-----+-------------+  +-----+-------------+
  | 1-5 |  Lesser  (*)|  |  1  |  Khorne     |
  | 6-8 |  Greater (*)|  |  2  |  Slaanesh   |
  |  9  |  Prince  (*)|  |  3  |  Nurgle     |
  | 10  |  Prince (**)|  |  4  |  Tzeentch   |
  +-----+-------------+  +-----+-------------+
 [[Key: (*)=roll D4 for chaos power, (**)=independant daemon 
prince.]]

 For details of the daemons of the chaos powers see Realms of Chaos.  
For more details of rules on possession see Realms of Chaosor the 
WH40K rulebook, both of which go into possession in varying amounts 
of detail.  Otherwise you can ignore possession or remove affected 
characters from play (perhaps using them as nasty NPCs later: "The 
hunched creature before you exudes the foulest smell imaginable and 
watches you through the single eye set in its' forehead, with a grin 
of spine chilling evil.  Apart from the single eye, the creatures' 
face looks hauntingly familiar...").

>SAMPLE SPELLWEAVOUS EFFECTS

 This section covers some examples of the effects a spellweaver can 
create, with suggested MP costs, difficulty modifiers, times taken to 
weave and times of effect.  Feel free to modify these details as you 
see fit.

 In these example weaves, the weaves have modifiers ranging from +30 
to -30, with MPs ranging from 1 to 35.  The difficulty associated 
with each the different modifiers is as follows:

  +----------+-------------+----------+
  | Modifier | Description | MP Range |
  +----------+-------------+----------+
  |   +30    |  Trivial    |   1- 5   |
  |   +20    |  Easy       |   5-10   |
  |   +10    |  Average    |  10-15   |
  |    +0    |  Hard       |  15-20   |
  |   -10    |  Difficult  |  20-25   |
  |   -20    |  Nasty      |  25-30   |
  |   -30    |  Horrible   |  30-35   |
  +----------+-------------+----------+

 These values, of course, are not set in stone and you should feel 
free to modify them as you wish.  I prefer the approach of 
classifying a prospective weave according the these groups and 
allocating the modifier and MPs accordingly to having a long list of 
weaves with modifiers, MPs, times, etc. laid out like a list of 
spells (the approach I wrote these rules as an alternative to).  The 
time a weave takes to channel and the length of its' effects are 
mainly a matter of common sense.  A summary table of these example 
weaves at the end of this section.

 Where a character is permitted a test against WP to resist a weaves' 
effects, the two parties (effector and effected) may expend MPs to 
modify the test: +/- 5 WP per MP spent.  These extra MPs must be 
spent afresh each round of resistance/enhancing.

 >>SHIELDING AND STILLING

 These two are special spellweavous effects.  Shielding is the 
temporary blocking of a spellweavers link to the warp by another 
spellweaver.  This effectively prevents the affected spellweaver from 
channelling.  The effector must spend MPs every turn to keep the 
effect up.  The target is entitled a WP test at the start of every 
turn to throw off the shielding.  Pooling is often necessary for 
successful shielding.

 Stilling is a more severe form of shielding, causing a tangle of 
threads to tangle around the targets link to the warp, leading to the 
same effects as for cutoff (above).  The target is allowed a WP test 
to avoid the effects of the weave.  Pooling is frequently required to 
successfully use this weave.  The traditional number of spellweavers 
that pool to still a target is thirteen, although recent studies 
suggest that this number may not be actually necessary (in actual 
fact, only a maximum of ten are really needed, but the PCs shouldn't 
know this).

 Shielding and stilling are exceptions to the normal rules, in that 
they both give a different modifier to WP than they do to Int.

 SHIELDING  
  Elements   : Earth, Spirit
  WP Mod.    : Penalty equal to one half of targets' WP, rounding up
  Int Mod.   : -20 
  MPs        : One twentieth of targets WP per turn, rounding up
  Weave Time : One round
  Effect Time: 1+ turns

 STILLING
  Elements   : Fire, Earth, Spirit
  WP Mod.    : Penalty equal to targets' WP
  Int Mod.   : -30
  MPs        : Targets' WP
  Weave Time : One turn
  Effect Time: Permanent

 >>IMMOBILISATION

 This is a common tactic of less aggressive spellweavers, stalling a 
target by making her unable to move.  This is usually done by 
"wrapping" the target in air: the air around her becomes viscous and 
extremely difficult to move through.  The spellweaver must keep 
spending MPs each round to ensure the continued effect.  The target 
must roll against her strength or be immobilised in the round of the 
test.  She must re-test each round.  Spellweavers (and other 
characters the GM thinks appropriate) get a magical saving throw 
against the effect, in which cases the target gets a WP test to 
resist.

  Elements   : Air
  Mod./MPs   : +20("Easy"), 6 MPs per round
  Weave Time : 1 rounds
  Effect Time: 1+ rounds

 >>FIREBALL

 This produces a fireball as with the battle magic spell.  Damage 
1D10 W's at S3, plus fire damage.  The spellweaver must throw the 
fireball using her BS if the spirit element is not used.  The spirit 
element serves to aim the fireball at a particular individual or 
groups' thought patterns (thus any hits will be head hits).

  Elements   : Fire, optionally Spirit
  Mod./MPs   : Spirit used: +20("Easy"), 8 MPs
               No spirit:   +30("Trivial"), 4 MPs
  Weave Time : One round
  Effect Time: Instantaneous

 >>LIGHT SUBSTANCE

 This weave is used to light or set fire to things.  A typical use 
for it is to light a candle or set a camp-fire going.  There are two 
forms of this weave: one that requires a flammable material to light 
(eg. the candles' wick or the firewood) and one that doesn't (eg. if 
all the firewood in the area is too wet).  If a combustible material 
is available to set fire to, the weave simply applies the fire 
element to the material to light it.  Otherwise, it uses earth to 
create a tiny amount of combustible material where wanted and fire to 
light it.  MPs must be spent every half hour to maintain the effects 
in the latter case.

  Elements   : Fire, optionally Earth
  Mod./MPs   : Earth used: +20("Easy"), 7 MPs per half hour
               No earth:   +30("Trivial"), 3 MPs
  Weave Time : One round
  Effect Time: Earth used: Instantaneous
               No earth:   Half an hour +

 >>MAGIC LIGHT

 This causes the spellweavers hand to give forth light equivalent to 
that of a lantern, as with the elemental spell Magic Light.  MPs  
must be expended every ten turns to keep the light constant.  The 
fire burns magically in the warp, casting its light onto the material 
world.

  Elements   : Fire, Spirit
  Mod./MPs   : +20("Easy"), 7 MPs per ten turns
  Weave Time : One round
  Effect Time: Ten+ turns

 >>FLAME SWORD

 This causes the spellweavers' blade to burn with a fiery wrath, as 
with the Hand of Fire spell.

  Elements   : Fire, Spirit
  Mod./MPs   : +10("Average"), 12 MPs per ten turns
  Weave Time : One round
  Effect Time: Ten+ turns

 >>RESISTIVE BARRIER

 The effect of this type of weave is similar to that of the battle 
magic aura spells.  This example weave establishes an aura of 1 AP on 
all body areas.  MPs must be expended every hour to maintain the 
barrier. 

  Elements   : Air, Spirit
  Mod./MPs   : +20("Easy"), 8 MPs per hour
  Weave Time : One round
  Effect Time: 1+ hours

 >>RESTRICTIVE BARRIER

 This type of weave establishes one or more invisible walls with a 
range equal to the spellweavers WP in yards.  The 'wall' has T4 and 
for this sample weave has 25 damage points.  Additional MPs must be 
spent every half hour to maintain the barrier.

  Elements   : Air
  Mod./MPs   : +0("Hard"), 16 MPs per half hour
  Weave Time : One turn
  Effect Time: Half an hour +

 >>HEAL FLESH

 Spellweavous healing magic uses earth and water to work on the flash 
and blood.  The healing takes two rounds to fully work.  This example 
heals 2D3 W's.

  Elements   : Earth, Water
  Mod./MPs   : +20("Easy"), 8 MPs
  Weave Time : Two rounds
  Effect Time: Until wounded again

 >>NULLIFY POISON

 This variant of the healing weave can be used to detoxify a target 
of poisons, using fire to burn them away.  Each weave can only 
nullify one type of poison (species specific toxins, deliriant or 
venoms).  The detox takes two rounds.  The weave does not protect 
against further poisoning.  This example weave nullifies 1 dose.

  Elements   : Water, Fire
  Mod./MPs   : +10("Average"), 14 MPs
  Weave Time : Two rounds
  Effect Time: Until poisoned again

 >>CUT WEAVE

 This type of weave is used to try to nullify a rival spellweavers' 
weave.  It takes an 'axe of spirit' and attempts to cut the threads 
of the opponents' weave, the fire giving the weave its destructive 
quality.  The opponent has a WP test to resist, if passed the cutting 
does no harm to the weave and its effects continue.  If failed the 
opposing weave is disrupted and loses its effects.  The effects of 
the weave prior to the cutting are NOT nullified.

  Elements   : Spirit, Fire
  Mod./MPs   : -10("Difficult"), 23 MPs
  Weave Time : One turn
  Effect Time: Instantaneous

 >>PORTAL

 This is an example of a special weave for chaos spellweavers 
employing the warpfire element.  This weave opens a portal between 
the warp and the material realm big enough for an average human to 
step through.  The warpfire burns a hole in the fabric of the barrier 
between warpspace and the material plane, large enough for the 
spellweaver to enter or leave the warp through.  The earth is used to 
seal up the portal when it closes.  The effects of a warp portal (eg. 
a few daemons coming through, the spellweaver getting sucked through, 
etc.) are up to the GM.

  Elements   : Warpfire, Earth.
  Mod./MPs   : -20("Nasty"), 30 MPs
  Weave Time : Three rounds
  Effect Time: Maximum two rounds.

 >>WEAVE STATS SUMMARY TABLE

 TWP denotes the WP of the weaves' target.  A, W, F, E, S and Wf 
denote air, water, fire, earth, spirit and warpfire respectively.  
Tr, Ea, Av, Ha, Di, Na and Ho denote trivial, easy, average, hard, 
difficult, nasty and horrible respectively.

  +----------------+----------+---------------+---------+-----------+
  | Weave          | Modifier | Magic Points  | Weave   | Effect    |
  |     (Elements) |          |               |    Time |     Time  |
  +----------------+----------+---------------+---------+-----------+
  | Shield (E,S)   | -TWP/2   | TWP/20 per tn | 1 rnd   | 1+ turns  |
  | Stilling(F,E,S)|  -TWP    | TWP           | 1 tn    | perm.     |
  | Immob. (A)     |  +20 (Ea)| 6 per rnd     | 1 rnd   | 1+ rnds   |
  | Fireball -(F)  |  +30 (Tr)| 4             | 1 rnd   | instant   |
  |          -(F,S)|  +20 (Ea)| 8             | 1 rnd   | instant   |
  | Lgt subst.-(F) |  +30 (Tr)| 3             | 1 rnd   | instant   |
  |          -(E,F)|  +20 (Ea)| 7 per half-hr | 1 rnd   | half-hr+  |
  | Magic lgt (F,S)|  +20 (Ea)| 7 per 10 tns  | 1 rnd   | 10+ tns   |
  | Flame swd (F,S)|  +10 (Av)| 12 per 10 tns | 1 rnd   | 10+ tns   |
  | Resis.bar.(A,S)|  +20 (Ea)| 8 per hour    | 1 rnd   | 1+ hrs    |
  | Restr.bar. (A) |  +0  (Ha)| 16 per half-hr| 1 tn    | half-hr+  |
  | Heal flesh(E,W)|  +20 (Ea)| 8             | 2 rnds  | until W'd |
  | Nul. psn. (W,F)|  +10 (Av)| 14            | 2 rnds  | until psnd|
  | Cut weave (S,F)|  -10 (Di)| 23            | 1 tn    | instant   |
  | Portal (Wf,E)  |  -20 (Na)| 30            | 3 rnds  | max.2 rnds|
  +----------------+----------+---------------+---------+-----------+

>EXAMPLES OF COMPLETE WEAVES

 There follow some examples of fully worked through weaves in game 
terms.  These use the example weaves above but could easily have used 
improvised figures.

 >>EXAMPLE WEAVE: NUMBER ONE - HEALING

 Fred, a level one elven spellweaver, and companions have been 
fighting some stunty slayurs and are in need of healing.  Sam is on 1 
W and Pietr is on 3 W's.  Fred (unscathed, as he stayed back and let  
his warrior mates deal with them) has WP 58, Int 61 and 18 MPs.

 Fred weaves earth and water into a pattern to heal 2D3 W's, a weave 
with modifier +20 and costing 8 MPs.  With the +20 modifier he gets a 
WP of 78 and easily makes it with 06.  He rolls 44 on the Int roll, 
less than 81, so the weave goes as expected.  Sam regains a total of 
4 W's putting him at 5 W's and now counted as lightly wounded.

 Repeating this for Pietr, Fred rolls 56 on his WP roll and 98 on the 
Int roll.  Thus the weave is controlled but functions differently 
than desired.  Failing the Int roll by 12 percentiles, the GM decides 
that Pietr LOSES 1D2 W's, leaving him at 1 W.  Previously lightly 
wounded, He is now heavily wounded.  In total, the two weaves cost 
Fred 8+8=16 MPs, leaving him 2 MPs.

 >>EXAMPLE WEAVE: NUMBER TWO - WAITING IN THE WARP

 Wolfgang Schwarzkopf, a chaotic human spellweaver of level 3, is 
fleeing from the witchhunters.  In an act of insane desperation, 
Wolfgang (Int 44, WP 52) decides to hide in warpspace until the 
witchhunters are gone, weaving warpfire and earth for a warp portal.  
The -20 on WP gives him 32% for the test.  Rolling 27, the weave is 
controlled.  He now has a 44-20 = 24% chance of the weave doing what 
he intended: he passes with 08.

 Thus the weave works and the portal through to the chaos realm is 
opened (letting a couple of lesser demons through).  Wolfgang steps 
through the portal into warpspace and seals it.  His luck just holds 
out as he rolls 49 on his risk test of 50% to avoid a warpstorm.  The 
GM is feeling generous and so decides all the warp creatures in the 
vicinity are off watching Khorne have a temper tantrum (otherwise, 
Wolfgang'd be gobbled up by the first disc that came along).

 When Wolfgang thinks the witchhunters will have gone, he has to open 
another portal back to the material realm.  Rolling 88 on the 32% WP 
test, he has fumbled badly and been cutoff.  Now Wolfgang is trapped 
in the chaos realm and it appears that Khornes' tantrum is over...  
With quite a few of Tzeentchs' discs already sharpening their teeth 
in the distance, Wolfgang is definitely in trouble...

 >>EXAMPLE WEAVE: NUMBER THREE - THE LIGHT FANTASTIC

 Seymour, an advanced level four human spellweaver (Int 67, WP 58) is 
reading a spellweavous tome when his candle goes out.  He weaves some 
threads of fire to relight it.  This simple weave will give Seymour a 
+30 to his WP and Int tests, giving the WP and Int test percentages 
as 88% and 97% respectively.  Seymour passes his WP test with 24 and 
his Int roll with 68.  The weave has gone as planned, the candle is 
relit and Seymour can now carry on reading.  The weave takes 3 MPs 
from his MP total.

>AND FINALLY...

 As you will have noticed, the freedom of effects that spellweavers 
have makes the GMs' job much harder than with conventional magic.  
This is necessary as no rigid system for deciding on modifiers and MP 
costs could ever be exhaustive enough.  As such, I would recommend 
these rules only for experienced GMs.

 In my opinion, the increased power of the freedom to do anything is 
countered by the lack of automatic success and the risks of cutoff 
and possession.  Please don't complain that the magical effects are 
too weak or powerful: you can tailor the modifiers and MPs however 
you like and thus make the magic as powerful as you want it.  Whether 
you want a magic-poor world or spellweavers with almost god-like 
powers, it's up to you.  What's more, you can make the weave effects 
as safe or dangerous, easy or difficult, as you want them to be.

 I think that the modifiers given in the example weaves make it 
difficult for inexperienced spellweavers to regularly use the ability 
and not be quickly cutoff, although advanced weavers can justifiably 
expect a reasonably high chance of success on at least simple weaves.  
The following table gives the overall chances of success (WP and Int 
test combined) and cutoff for weaves woven by an average spellweaver 
of that race using weaves whose modifiers range from -30 to +30.

  +-------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
  | N/L1  | -30 | -20 | -10 |  +0 | +10 | +20 | +30 |  -  |  -  |
  | L2/L3 |  -  | -30 | -20 | -10 |  +0 | +10 | +20 | +30 |  -  |
  | L4    |  -  |  -  | -30 | -20 | -10 |  +0 | +10 | +20 | +30 |
  +-------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
  | Human | 1,10| 4,9 | 9,8 | 16,7| 25,6| 36,5| 49,4| 64,3| 81,2|
  | Elf   | 6,9 | 12,8| 20,7| 30,6| 42,5| 56,4| 72,3| 90,2|100,0|
  | Dwarf | 3,8 | 8,7 | 15,6| 24,5| 35,4| 48,3| 63,2| 80,0| 90,0|
  | H'ling| 2,9 | 6,8 | 12,7| 20,6| 30,5| 42,4| 56,3| 72,2| 90,0|
  +-------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+

 To use the table to find, say, the chances of success and cutoff for 
a level 2 human spellweaver using a +20 weave, follow the 'L2/L3' row 
across until you find '+20', then move down that column until you are 
in the row headed 'Human'.  In that cell will be two numbers 
separated by a comma, the first is the percentage chance of success 
and the second is the percentage chance of cutoff.  Therefore, the 
figures wanted turn out to be 49% success and 4% cutoff.  As you will 
notice, the high characteristic rolls of elves and dwarves give them 
an advantage over human and halfling spellweavers.  Using the range 
of modifiers from -30 to +30 makes all chances of success from 0 to 
100% possible, while the chance of cutoff can never rise above 10%.

  One thing I haven't gone into is the psychological effects on non 
chaotic characters of dealing with the warp.  You could make 
spellweavers take a cool test when ascending a level or gain D2 
insanity points, this is entirely up to you.  You could say that 
dealing with the warp on this level affects even the most guarded of 
minds.  I recommend you consider this in particular for elves, whose 
default alignment would mean a certain amount of psychological stress 
when using warp energies directly on a regular basis.

 A read of Jordans' books will help you understand the possible 
effects of such a freeform system as this, and I recommend that you 
do read the series.  Apart from giving a feel for the way you weave 
magical effects, "The Wheel of Time" is a brilliant series anyway 
(IMHO).  The books in the series are, in order, "The Eye of the 
World", "The Great Hunt", "The Dragon Reborn", "The Shadow Rising", 
"The Fires of Heaven" and "Lord of Chaos".  There's a seventh book 
(hopefully) coming out soon, which will be called "Crown of Swords".  
I've changed little of what Jordan wrote, the main differences being 
that male spellweavers don't automatically go mad anymore and there 
are no differences in thread manipulation between genders.  I'm sure 
you'll be able to work out the other differences by yourself.

 Finally, do let me know what you think of these rules.  Are they 
exquisitely wonderful, atrociously awful, or somewhere in-between?  
You can contact me (at the time of writing - Jan '95) by email on 
Aca95IDW@Sheffield.ac.uk (personal mail address) or 
wfrp@gojira.monsta.com (WFRP mailing list).

[[Ideas for expansion:
1) Some sort of critical table for fumbled WP and/or Int tests.
2) Bonus modifiers for commonly used weaves, akin to learned spells 
(possibly linked to the spellweavous tomes covered).
3) Angreal (spellweavous magic items).  'Borrowing' the names Jordan 
used, Sa'angreal and Ter'angreal:
 - Sa'angreal: a type of spellweavous magic item that makes 
channelling easier.  Something like a +10 or +20 modifier (depending 
on the sa'angreals' strength) to WP and Int for all weaves when held, 
and reducing the weaves' MP cost.
 - Ter'angreal: more general magic items with more specialised 
abilities (much like the standard WFRP magic items).
4) Spellweavers specialising a bit.  Perhaps something along the 
lines of the spellweaver being given 30 percentiles, to divide up as 
bonuses on specific elements as she wants.  She could put use them 
all to give her a +30 on weaves involving fire, or getting +15 on 
fire, +5 on air and +10 on spirit.  Spellweavers specialising in this 
way would have to pay 150(?) more EPs on advancing levels.]]

[[Brief version history:
  v. 1-  Dreadful.
  v. 2-  Near total rewrite of v1.
  v. 3-  Dropped racial mod's, cutoff rules revised,
          Weave mod's extended to Int and revised.
  v. 3b- This version: a 'Bug fix'.
          (Well, I am a computer scientist! :}).
          Inconsistancies from last update removed.]]

  TTFN.
  Ian Ward.

