{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f59\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Magik;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Necromancy}{\author Grover Hull}{\operator Grover Hull}{\creatim\yr1996\mo11\dy13\hr23\min25}{\revtim\yr1996\mo11\dy13\hr23\min25}
{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords45}{\nofchars262}{\vern49197}}\margl720\margr720\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \f4\fs20 {\b\f59\fs44 Witch Magic }{\f59\fs28 by Brian Hull}{\b\f59\fs44 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1443\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2184\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3003\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3939\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4980\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7101\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx10908 \pard \intbl {\b Spell Name\cell }\pard 
\intbl {\b\fs18 Spell
\par Level}{\b \cell }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Magic 
\par Points}{\b \cell }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Range}{\b \cell }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Duration}{\b \cell }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Ingredients}{\b \cell }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Description}{\b \cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1443\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2184\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3003\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx3939\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4980\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7101\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx10908 \pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Warden\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 1\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 1\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 
100 yards\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 6 hours\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 blood from a rodent caught in a trap\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 caster is protected for 6 hours in that he will know when any living creature approaches within 100 y
ards and exactly how many.\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Bitter Vow\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 1\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 6\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 48 yards\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 instant\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 caster
\rquote s spittle\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 caster spits a curse at any foe and the foe must roll a Wp test or be unable to hear anything other than the caster\rquote 
s words, constantly echoing in his head.  The echoing is excruciatingly loud and all stats are reduced by -1/-10 for the duration.\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Projection\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 1\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {
\fs18 4\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 touch\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 one hour\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 caster\rquote s eyelash and fingernail\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 caster touches any object and immediately goes blind.  The object acts as the caster
\rquote s eyes, and the caster can \ldblquote see\rdblquote  via the object in all directions.  The object is imbued with the caster\rquote 
s vision for one hour per 4 points spent, or for one day if the caster initially spends 40 MP (+10 per additional day).  If the object is destroyed while the spell is in effect the caster is rendered permanently blind.\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row 
}\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Curse of
\par }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18     Tongues\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 2\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 8\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 hearing\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 permanent\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 needle piercing caster\rquote s tongue\cell }\pard \intbl {
\fs18 caster twists and turns his tongue about as he utters incomprehensible ramblings in a forgotten demonic tongue.  A predetermined target within hearing m
ust roll a Wp test or suffer their tongue to bloat and make speech impossible.  The duration is permanent or lasts until a dispel magic spell is cast on the victim.  \cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Serpent Sting\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\fs18 2\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 10\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 48 yards\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 instant\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 skull of a poisonous snake\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 
by pointing and chanting the caster transforms any non-magical weapon into a poisonous snake that immediately bites the closest person.  The snake is much deadlier than a real snake and never misses.  The victim must roll a toughness test immediately, fai
lure means death.  The sna
ke instantly reverts to a weapon after biting the victim.  The second round the person must roll another toughness test or fall into a coma for 2d4 weeks.  The third round the person must again test or fall asleep for d6 hours.  The fourth round the poiso
n has no effect.  If all toughness tests are passed the poison has no noticeable effect, the bite inflicts negligible damage.\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Ring Wretch\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 2\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 12
\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 touch\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 until worn\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 tears from a woman of noble birth, piece of jewelry worth ~100 GCs\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 this spell curses a piece of 
jewelry such as a ring or necklace so that it contracts as soon as someone wears it.  If the object is a ring it severs a finger.  If the object is a necklace is crushes the victim\rquote 
s throat, requiring a test vs. strength with a -30 penalty to break the necklace off before dying.  The piece of jewelry is destroyed after the spell takes effect.\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Withering \cell }\pard \qc\intbl {
\fs18 3\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 15\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 touch\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 d6 rounds \cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 piece of flesh from an old man framed in an iron circlet, worn on a chain\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 
caster touches the victim who begins to rapidly age.  The spell lasts d6 rounds, each round the foe suffers one hit of damage at the caster\rquote s S.  Armor does not count, and if any damage is scored add the damage in years xd4 to the victim\rquote 
s age.  If the total cumulative damage in years is greater than the victim\rquote s
 natural life span the victim dies.  If the damage in years would leave the creature alive but just older, after the last round of the spell reverse the effects.  The victim grows younger again until the spell has worn off.  Creatures suffer the full affe
cts of becoming old while the spell lasts.
\par }\pard \intbl {\fs18   \cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Dance of the 
\par }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18     Dirge\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 3\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 18\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 special\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 special\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 sweat, blood, hair, and skin from the victim.\cell }\pard \intbl 
{\fs18 
caster performs an elaborate ritual by the light of the moon and the embers of a fire.  The caster engages in an eerie, haunting dance of strange, jerky movement and rasping moans.  The victim for whom the spell has been prepared must roll a 1/2 Wp test i
f sleeping, or a normal Wp test if awake.  If the test is failed the victim\rquote s heart contracts to the point of tearing ope
n, and the victim dies.  If the victim survives the spell he still receives d6 insanity points from the sudden shock it gives him.  Note that the victim and caster could be thousands of miles apart, distance is irrelevant for the spell to succeed.\cell 
}\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Curse of
\par }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18     Succulence\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 3\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 18\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 touch\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 permanent\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 
flank of raw meat from a calf, soaked in human blood and burned in the casting\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 the victim of this spell must roll a magic test or begin to exude a feint smell of blood and sweat mixed with fear and seasoned meat, to th
e point that monsters, animals, and insects become greatly attracted to the person as something to feast on.  Chaos beastmen will detect the scent of the character as a delicacy, ripe for the taking.  Dogs will attack the character, flies will bite him in
cessantly.  Humans and similar creatures cannot detect the scent, and although a dispel magic spell will remove the curse, the victim is likely to never realize exactly what has happened to him.\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 
The Scream\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 4\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 22\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 touch\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 special\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 blood from the caster\rquote s tongue\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 
caster touches the victim who must roll a magic test or immediately begin to scream.  The scream comes out as one long, horrid sound completely independent of the will of the victim.  The scream emerges with such force that it quickly begins to tear the i
nside of the victim\rquote 
s throat.  The victim takes d6+6 points of damage each round, regardless of armor.  The spell lasts one round per 10 points of caster Wp, round up.  If the victim survives the scream he will find speaking to be unbearably painful until t
he damage heals.  While screaming the character breathes in gasps and is somewhat distracted, thus receiving a -1/-10 penalty on all dice rolls.\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Last Grin\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 4\cell }\pard 
\qc\intbl {\fs18 30\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 special\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 permanent\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 tooth from the victim, brains of a madman\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 caster boils the victim\rquote 
s tooth in a small bowl of bubbling water and brains.  The caster chants as the concoction is stirred, and then drinks the boiling mixture, causing a S5 hit to himself.  The caster spews out the last gulp of the stuff as he screeches the victim\rquote 
s name.  The victim of the spell immediately must roll a Wp test with a or acquire d6+6 insanities and lose 3d10 points of Cl, Int, and Ld.  The insanity can be cured, but only experience will help the rest.\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\trowd 
\trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1443\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2184\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3003\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3939\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4980\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7101\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx10908 \pard \intbl {\b\fs18 Prognostic 
\par }\pard \intbl {\b\fs18     Prism\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 4\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\fs18 33\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 caster\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 one round\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 
crystal bathed in liquid warpstone, then swathed in black cloth and placed at the bottom of a cauldron of pitch.\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 
the caster rolls a 1/2 Wp test and, if successful, the crystal rises out of the blackness and shows him a vision of the general outcome and consequences of any one spec
ific task or feat that he wishes to attempt within the next 6 days.  An example would be asking the crystal \ldblquote Show me the consequences of seeking to slay the Emperor.\rdblquote   The crystal must be asked hypothetically as above, saying 
\ldblquote What if I kill the Emperor\rdblquote  may not work because there is no conceivable way that the caster can actually pull it off (the death of the Emperor at the caster\rquote 
s hand must be a viable future).  If the caster barely misses his test (+/-10) the crystal shows a false vision (GM should roll Wp test).\cell }\pard \intbl {\fs18 \row }\pard {\fs18 
\par }}