{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f55\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 GranStencil;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Grover Hull}{\operator Allan Hull}{\creatim\yr1990\mo2\dy13\hr6\min33}{\revtim\yr1995\mo12\dy5\hr13\min17}
{\printim\yr1990\mo2\dy13\hr6\min33}{\version4}{\edmins111}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords530}{\nofchars3023}{\vern49197}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \f4\fs20 {\b\fs16 A taste of how powerful a demon prince }{\b\i\fs16 could }{\b\fs16 be...
\par }{\b\f55\fs16 
\par }{\b\f55\fs100 Stygion
\par }\pard {\fs22 \tab }Stygion is the Lord of the Mardaags.  He is one of Khorne's most powerful demon princes
\par \pard and has entered into an unholy alliance with Kossus, a powerful demon prince of Blazzach.  Together the two of them are sweeping across the southern chaos wast
es and may soon overtake them.  Stygion appears as an immense, shrouded Mardaag.  He carries an enormous scythe and his eye sockets burn with a screaming fire.  Stygion's bones are blood red rather than white, and beneath his massive cloak he wears a suit
 of gleaming black chaos armor, the helmet from which was destroyed in a battle with Layatan, most powerful of the champions of Sigmar.  Stygion's scythe can parry all damage from one attack for each attack he
 spends doing so.  When the weapon hits it inflicts d6 xd6 +29 points and if a WP tes
t is failed the victim turns to stone and is slain instantly.  Any creature of law touched by the scythe dies and can only be saved by resurrection or regeneration.  The scythe drains one point of strength per hit and fades through all armor.  The bladed 
end will extend on a magic chain and can be used to strike a foe 4d6 yards away.  Stygion can drain 1/5 points from any score he chooses when he hits a foe.  These points are then added to his profile until that foe dies (or 24 hours).  Any foe that is hi
t must also roll a WP test or contract d3 chaos attributes!  The scythe will reflect magic back at the caster if Stygion rolls his WS and after the blade has damaged a foe he does not need to roll to hit that foe again.    {\b Rewards:  }
the Hand of Khorne (x2), Mark of Khorne, Regeneration, Aggression bonus, Personality loss, Chaos weapon (deathdealer to creatures of law, deathlust, parry, cockatrice, wraith, fade, Hacking, lashing, stealing, magic reflection, warp, vampyre; chaos armor 
(6 AP, runes of life, endurance, and bloodlust).  {\b Attributes:  }Meld into Stone, Regeneration, Growth, Viper Gout, Iron Hard Skin, Chaos Lord.  {\b Skills:  }strike mighty blow, dodge blow, luck.  11 AP
\par \pard \tab {\b M  10, WS  99%, BS  78%, S  18, T  16, W  98, I  100%, A  10, Dx  89, Ld  94
\par Int 59, Cl  99, Wp  100, Fel  5
\par }\pard {\b\fs22 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\fs40 Moriadda
\par }\pard {\b\fs40 \tab }Moriadda is a demon princess working for Stygion.  She is his bloodthirsty general, and her abilities concentrate on the offensive.  She has long black tangly hair and one of her eyes is 
\par \pard completely black.  Moriadda wear
s black enchanted chain mail, as her armor of Khorne was destroyed many years ago.  In combat she wields two swords, one inflicts d6 xd6 xd4 +20 points of damage and the other is a blade of freezing and mind eating, a hit drains her foe's Ld, Cl, Int, and
 Wp to zero and will freeze them to death on a roll of 2-6 on 1d6.  {\b Rewards:  }Chaos Armor, Collar
\par \pard of Khorne, Mark of Khorne, Technology, Chaos Weapon (damage, hacking, deathlust, freeze, mind eater).  {\b Attributes:  }rapid regeneration, weapon master, chaos lord.  {\b Skills:  }luck, dodge blow.  0 AP{\b   }
\par \pard {\fs22 \tab  }{\b\fs22 M  8, WS  79%, BS  44%, S  10, T  10, W  64, I  100%, A  10, Dx  67, Ld  54
\par Int  44, Cl  87, Wp  89, Fel  56
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\fs40 Orntei
\par }\pard {\b\fs40 \tab }
This is one of Stygion's generals and a demon prince of the Lord of Mardaags.  Orntei is dressed in chaos armor and carries two chaos shields, one of Khorne and one that he stole from a Slaanesh champion.  His swords are of parry, riposte, magic reflectio
n, and [the other is] deathlust.
\par \pard {\b Rewards:  }chaos armor (16 points, runes of protection, life, and bloodlust), Chaos weapon x4, Collar of Khorne, Strength.  {\b Attributes:  }magic immune, rapid regeneration, iron hard skin, telekinesis, fast, chaos lord.  {\b Skills:  }
luck, dodge blow, strike mighty blow.  21 AP
\par \pard {\fs22 \tab }{\b\fs22 M  8, WS  86%, BS  74%, S  11, T  17, W  71, I  100%, A  10, Dx  89, Ld  89
\par Int  89, Cl  89, Wp  100, Fel  0\tab \tab \tab 
\par }\pard {\fs22  
\par }{\b\fs28 \tab Chaos Spawn Basic Profile}{\b\fs40 
\par }{\fs28 M  5, WS  40%, BS  40%, S  4, T  4, W  12, I  40%, A  1, Dx  40, Ld  40
\par Cl  40, Int  20, Wp  59, Fel  9
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 Vlegth
\par }{\fs28 M  5, WS  40%, BS  40%, S  4, T  6, W  12, I  40%, A  4, Dx  40, Ld  40
\par Cl  40, Int  20, Wp  59, Fel  9
\par \tab }{\fs22 Vlegth appears as a wiry humanoid with four arms and the head of a weasel.  His three eyes protrude on long stalks and his body appears slick and rubbery.  Vlegth has twelve MP and may cast}{\i\fs22  fireball}{\fs22 , }{\i\fs22 hammerhand}{
\fs22 , and }{\i\fs22 cure light injury}{\fs22 .  He is }{\i\fs22 manic}{\fs22  and will never flee combat.  10% of all hits to his head will sever an eyestalk but cause no real damage.  All three eyes must be severed in o
rder to blind him (treat opponents as invisible).  Vlegth has dimensional instability and may be banished.  }{\b\fs22 Attributes: }{\fs22  additional eye, bestial face- weasel, dimensional instability, eyestalks, magician, manic fighter, multiple arms.

\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 Freglunimor
\par }{\fs28 M  11, WS  21%, BS  32%, S  8, T  7, W  35, I  10%, A  2, Dx  35, Ld  35
\par Cl  41, Int  20, Wp  62, Fel  6
\par \tab }{\fs22 Freg' appears as a colossal, 20' high bird legged man with wings.  He has a large taloned foot growing out of his stomach and huge feathery wings.  He ma
y fly as a lander and his large serpent's head gives him a poisonous bite attack, in addition to his fist attacks.  Freg's skin is completely black (granting him a +20% bonus to hide tests in dark surroundings) and he always gains a +20% bonus to WP tests
 against magic.  Though huge and imposing Freg's voice sounds like that of a human infant, and he walks awkwardly about on all fours.  Freg' can also teleport at will up to 72 feet from his original position.  }{\b\fs22 Attributes:}{\fs22 
  bestial face- snake, black skin, crossbreed- harpy, growth, limb transference, magic resistant, massive intellect, mindless, silly walk, silly voice, teleport.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 Gnul
\par }{\fs28 M  6, WS  50%, BS  40%, S  8, T  10, W  12, I  40%, A  8, Dx  60, Ld  40
\par Cl  40, Int  20, Wp  59, Fel  9
\par \tab }{\fs22 Gnul is a seven foot mutant that appears to be wrapped completely in black metal.  His head is that of a tiger, with black fur streaked with white.  His tiger head grants him }{\i\fs22 night vision}{\fs22 
.  The mutant also has ghoulish twisted horns growing from the sides of his head and sharp metal claws.  Gnul has the ability to }{\i\fs22 levitate}{\fs22 
 at will and can also breathe fire at a range of 36 feet in a cloud that is 12 feet wide at the base.  All creatures in the cloud are automatically hit twice for 1d6+8 wounds each time.  The most noticeable feature about the mutant is its six arms.  Gnul 
can climb very easily with these arms and uses them to his advantage in combat.  }{\b\fs22 Attributes: }{\fs22  bestial face- tiger, breathes fire, duplication, horns, levitation, mechanoid, multiple arms.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 Lung
\par }{\fs28 M  6, WS  50%, BS  40%, S  8, T  10, W  12, I  40%, A  8, Dx  60, Ld  40
\par Cl  40, Int  20, Wp  59, Fel  9
\par \tab }{\fs22 Lung is the duplicated counterpart of Gnul.  The two are exactly the same in every way.
\par }{\b\fs28 Grishnu
\par }{\fs28 M  3, WS  40%, BS  40%, S  4, T  5, W  12, I  70%, A  3, Dx  40, Ld  40
\par Cl  40, Int  20, Wp  59, Fel  9
\par \tab }{\fs22 Grishnu appears as a human sized mutant with three heads and one leg.  Each head is bald and featureless save a gaping mouth lined with fangs and a pair of wicked horns.  Grishnu also has a bat like pair of reddish wings and he flies as a }{
\i\fs22 swooper}{\fs22 
.  His skin is a dead, frosty white color and he is always surrounded by a thick fog of buzzing flies.  These flies cause all foes attempting to hit him in combat to suffer a -10% penalty to their WS rolls.  Anyone within 24 feet of Grishnu must also roll
 an}{\i\fs22  initiative }{\fs22 test or suffer a -10% penalty to all rolls and tests for as long as they are within sight of the still living Grishnu.  Grishnu gets a +20% bonus to all Wp tests against magic.  He has sixteen magic points and may cast }{
\i\fs22 lightning bolt}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 cure light injury}{\fs22  at will.  Also Grishnu may elect to split into three parts for one turn.  Each of the parts is a clone of the original in all aspects other than size.  The three of them have the same 
statistics as Grishnu other than }{\i\fs22 strength}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 wounds}{\fs22 
; which become 2 and 4, respectively.  All three of the clones must be killed for Grishnu to die.  Grishnu's last ability is his most powerful.  That is the ability to transform into a liche with a successful Wp test.  Grishn
u may keep trying to change once per round, until he is successful.  Once transformed he will remain a liche until the battle is over.  The statistics for Grishnu as a liche are given below.  }{\b\fs22 Attributes: }{\fs22 
 agility, albino, chaos were- liche, cloud of flies, evil eye, fangs, fast, featureless face, hopper, limb loss- one leg, magician, magic resistant, multiple heads, multiplication, pseudo-daemonhood.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 Grishnu the Liche
\par }{\fs28 M  5, WS  71%, BS  65%, S  8, T  6, W  42, I  100%, A  6, Dx  43, Ld  100
\par Cl  100, Wp  99, Fel  0
\par \tab }{\fs22 
In this form Grishnu appears to be a heavily armored liche with unnaturally long, bony legs.  From his back sprouts a large scorpion's tail and his head is adorned with a fleshy, rigid crest.  The liche wears chaos armor that is worth a total of 7 armor p
oints!  Anyone approaching within 30' of the liche will suffer a -10% penalty to all rolls and tests automatically; this is due to the disgustingly overpowering stench that exudes from its body.  The liche has 9
\par 2 magic points and many magic
al spells.  Grishnu is both a 4th level wizard and a 4th level necromancer as a liche.  His spells are as follows:  cure light injury, fireball, steal mind, strength of combat (1st battle magic), lightning bolt (2nd battle magic), cause fear, arrow invuln
erability, animate sword, curse of arrow attraction (3rd battle magic), blast, cure severe wound (4th battle magic), hand of death, summon skeleton champion, destroy undead (1st necromancer), control undead, hand of dust (2nd necromancer), raise dead, sum
mon skeleton horde (3rd necromancer), summon skeleton major hero, wind of death (4th necromancer).  }{\b\fs22 Attributes: }{\fs22  chaos lord, crest, horrible stench, iron hard skin, long legs, scorpion tail.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 Svog
\par }{\fs28 M  11, WS  30%, BS  20%, S  13, T  9, W  90, I  15%, A  3, Dx  40, Ld  40
\par Cl  40, Int  5, Wp  69, Fel  0
\par \tab }{\fs22 Svog is an extremely stupid brute with green scaly skin and flashing white eyes.  He stands almost 18' at the shoulder and is hunched and grotesquely muscular, though humanoid.  A forked reptilian tongue sl
ips in and out of his mouth, and his head appears very small a sunken into his massive shoulders.  His scales give him 1 AP.  Svog's feet end in large black hooves.  }{\b\fs22 Attributes: }{\fs22 
 scaly skin, crossbreed- dragon, pin head, strong, cloven hooves, growth.
\par }{\b\fs28 Ximmhr
\par }{\fs28 M  5, WS  96%, BS  70%, S  7, T  6, W  23, I  30%, A  6, Dx  40, Ld  70
\par Cl  60, Int  30, Wp  69, Fel 0
\par \tab }{\fs22 Ximmhr is a most unusual mutant.  His head is that of a muscular buck deer and his body appears humanoid other than that.  Ximmhr's arms are larg
e and strong, much larger than normal for his size.  Ximmhr often walks on all fours using his fists as extra 'feet'.  He has a large tail that ends in a mace like appendage.  Each round he makes one attack with it which inflicts normal damage plus one.  
Ximmhr's head is adorned with large twisted antlers but also features a fleshy crest that runs all the way down his back.  His will is so strong that he receives a +20% bonus to all magic tests.  Ximmhr is far more intelligent than most chaos spawn and he
 prides himself on his infallible sword wielding ability.  Ximmhr possesses a black
 long sword of chaos which will always parry one attack per round and can lash out up to 18' away to strike an opponent.  He travels with three fleshhounds constantly racing about his heels.  They are his trusted hunting dogs and he often uses them to fer
ret out prey from difficult places.  }{\b\fs22 Attributes:}{\fs22   bestial face- deer, chaos lord, crest, mace tail, magic resistant, overgrown body part- arms.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 Ximmhr's Fleshhounds
\par }{\fs28 M  10, WS  49%, BS  0, S  5, T  4, W  11, I  60%, A  1, Dx  0, Ld  10
\par Int  14, Cl  89, Wp  89, Fel  0
\par \tab }{\fs22 Ximmhr's fleshhounds follow his orders at all times and often precede him wherever he goes.  He loves to use them as a grim harbinger of his arrival.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 Nugror, War Child 
\par }{\fs28 M  7, WS  60%, BS  40%, S  9, T  7, W  24, I  49%, A  3, Dx  26, Ld  31
\par Int  27, Wp  62, Fel  27
\par \tab }{\fs22 Nugror is a nine foot, raging man clad in black plate armor.  His head is the only part of his body exposed to the air, and it is a grisly hea
d indeed.  Nugror's flesh is dead white, and his sunken eyes are blood shot and rimmed with red.  He is completely bald, with a black, scorched symbol of Khorne burned into the top of his head.  Nugror's armor provides him with 3 AP on all locations and h
is right arm is melded with his great chaos axe of }{\i\fs22 deathlust}{\fs22  and }{\i\fs22 deflection.}{\fs22 
  The axe adds +10 points to the damage he inflicts with it and it will deflect all non-spell induced missiles automatically.  Nugror also carries a heavy black shield (+1 AP on all
 locations) which is not magical but which does have the symbol of Khorne emblazoned proudly on its face.  Nugror wears a }{\i\fs22 collar of Khorne}{\fs22 
 which makes him completely immune to all magic and other effects which require Wp tests.  When not mounted on Serk'ker, his great mutant steed, Nugror can still run speedily though he does so with a queer limp.  Nugror also possesses the ability to }{
\i\fs22 levitate}{\fs22  at will; this assures that though his victims may run, they can usually never hide.  }{\b\fs22 Rewards: }{\fs22  aggression bonus, chaos armor (x2), chaos axe, chaos spawn, collar of Khorne, frenzy, strength, weapon hand.  }{
\b\fs22 Attributes:}{\fs22   albino, growth, levitation, silly walk.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par Serk'ker, Chaos Steed
\par }{\fs28 M  11, WS  53%, BS  0, S  7, T  8, W  26, I  50%, A  5, Dx  10, Ld  40
\par Int  20, Cl  20, Wp  30, Fel  0
\par }{\fs22 \tab Serk'ker is an enormous black war-horse with two heads and four legs.  His left head is that of a ferocious wolf while his right appears to be more or less a normal horse.  Serk'ker's horse head has only one eye, however, and it 
is mounted exactly in the middle of his forehead.  The steed's skin is so tough as to give it 5 AP on all locations and it moves with lightning speed.  }{\b\fs22 Attributes:}{\fs22 
  bestial face- wolf, chaos lord, fast, iron hard skin, multiple arms, multiple heads, one eye.  }{\fs28 
\par }{\fs22 
\par }{\b\fs28 Jennira, War Child
\par }{\fs28 M  4, WS  56%, BS  41%, S  8, T  5, W  8, I  60, A  4, Dx  26, Ld  29, Cl  31
\par Int  24, Wp  31,  Fel  43
\par \tab }{\fs22 Jennira is a basically normal, beautiful woman with wispy, raven black hair and a propensity for making herself out to b
e far more powerful than she actually is.  She loves Khorne and wishes to someday be able to kill Nugror in his honor.  She wears chaos chain mail
 (3 AP) and carries a shield and a sword that gives her an extra attack.  Her tiny fangs hold a poison which requires the victim to roll a T test or take double damage.  She will regenerate all lost wounds at the end of any given round on a roll of 4, 5, 
or 6 on 1d6.  If this fails she cannot regenerate again until she has been fully healed by magic or resting.  Rewards:  aggression bonus, chaos armor (x2), chaos weapon- ferocity, frenzy.  Attributes:  poisonous bite, regeneration, strong.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs28 Tenek, War Child
\par }{\fs28 M  5, WS  40%, BS  22%, S  5, T  8, W  5, I  24, A  2, Dx  32, Ld  28, Cl  33
\par Int  31, Wp 24, Fel  26
\par \tab }{\fs22 
Tenek has brass colored skin and white eyes.  He wears chain armor (1 AP) and carries a shield.  His skin is covered with warts and the blood that courses through his veins is actually boiling acid.  Tenek's torso has sprouted spines on the front and back
.  
Anyone attacking him must make an initiative test for each round of attack or take 1d6+6 points of damage from the spikes.  He uses a double bladed battle axe in combat.  Tenek is extremely jealous of Jenirra and Nugror's power, and he has sworn to himsel
f that he will kill them both whenever he has an opportunity (which may be never!).  Tenek reveres the Blood God and enjoys wallowing in the spilt blood and entrails of his fallen opponents (whether or not it was he who actually killed them).  }{\b\fs22 
Rewards:}{\fs22   skin of Khorne.  }{\b\fs22 Attributes:}{\fs22   blood substitution- acid blood, long spines, resilient, warty skin.          
\par  
\par 
\par \tab That\rquote s a wrap on one tough band of Khorne worshipping war children, till next time...
\par \tab 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Brian Hull
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab Ultimate Mind Co.
\par }{\fs28  }{\b\fs28 
\par }
\par {\fs22 
\par }}