{\rtf1\ansi \deff25\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Tms Rmn;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helv;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f6\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Serif;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Sans Serif;}{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times;}{\f9\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica;}
{\f10\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 System;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f12\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}{\f13\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 MT Extra;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Fences;}{\f15\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Monotype Corsiva;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 OE_Font;}{\f17\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 SILDoulosIPA;}{\f18\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 SILSophiaIPA;}{\f19\fnil\fcharset0\fprq2 Phonetic;}{\f20\fmodern\fcharset2\fprq1 MS LineDraw;}{\f21\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 AvantGarde;}
{\f22\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Bookman;}{\f23\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica-Narrow;}{\f24\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 NewCenturySchlbk;}{\f25\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Palatino;}{\f26\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 ZapfChancery;}
{\f27\fdecor\fcharset2\fprq2 ZapfDingbats;}{\f28\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq1 MS Dialog;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\qj \f25\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\sb480\keep\keepn \b\f25\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb240\keep\keepn \b\f25\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\keep\keepn \b\f25\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\qj\li708 
\f25\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext15 Normal Indent;}}{\info{\title Cathayan Martial Arts}{\subject Warhammer Gazetteer}{\author Academic Computing Services}{\operator Academic Computing Services}{\creatim\yr1996\mo4\dy12\hr11\min41}
{\revtim\yr1996\mo5\dy12\hr22\min22}{\version8}{\edmins161}{\nofpages14}{\nofwords3856}{\nofchars17465}{\vern49203}}\paperw11909\paperh16834\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0 \fet0
\sectd \linex0\headery706\footery706\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qj \f25\fs20 {\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj {\fs28 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\b\f15\fs40 Cathayan Martial Arts}{\f15\fs40 
\par }\pard \qc {\fs28 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc {\f15\fs24 by
\par 
\par Garett Lepper
\par 
\par With Special Thanks to Kirk Lund for his advice}{\fs28 
\par }\pard \qc {\fs28 
\par }\pard \qj {\fs24 \page 
\par }\pard \qj {\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj {\b\fs24 Cathayan Martial Arts Styles}{\fs24 
\par }\pard \qj 
\par 
\par   {\ul History of Cathayan Martial Arts
\par }\pard \qj   Cathayan Martial Arts exists within Imperial Cathay, and beyond, with a strong following in Nippon.  Cathayan Martial Arts originated within the boundaries of Imperial Cathay.  When the Ungols conquered the ? Empire, Imperial Cathay\rquote 
s rival, the Ungols moved south to the region of Indhya.  One of the Ungol policies was of uninhibited r
eligious freedom for their subjects.  One of the primary religions in the Indhya region was the faith of Simda.  Simda, a religious prophet and visionary, was one of numerous in the Indhya region.  However, with the Ungol invasion, the follower of Simda m
oved into the north region, to preach to the Cathayans of the Chen Empire.
\par   Many of the outlying states, far from the influence of the palace, had always felt uncomfortable about the worship of the emperor, and often secretly still adhered to worship of ancestors, nature spirits, and many other traditional practices.  It is her
e, where the beliefs of Simda, Known as Vimta to the Cathayans took root.  Offered not only as a religion, but also as a new way of thought and life, the Cathayan followers of Vimta quick
ly gained in numbers, and to a certain degree in power, as Vimtaoism won influence among scholars who found room for themselves to think and exercise power outside of the edicts and decrees of the doctrinal worship of the Emperor.
\par \pard \qj   When news of this \ldblquote heresy\rdblquote 
 spread to the Imperial Palace, the Emperor at the time, Emperor Cao Chen, sent troops to outlying states and provinces.  The bureaucracy was purged, and religious leaders massacred.  Instead of fighting back, the new converts, in accordance with Vimto 
philosophy, went underground, rather than rebelling.  Meeting in obscure areas, practicing their faith, and hiding holy documents, they persisted.
\par \pard \qj 
  When Emperor Cao Chen heard of the lack of resistance, he called back most of his troops, assuming he had broken the resistance.  Instead, he had driven them together in tight knit secretive groups.  These groups began to practice Vimto (or Vimtaoist) t
hought, and applying it even to their struggle.  They adopted a number of weaponless techniques to defend them
selves from the persecution of authorities and of brigands and other dangers.  It was these small groups, practicing their own interpretations of Simda thought that were to be the starting of the famous Cathayan Monastic Orders.
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\ul Martial Arts Styles}
\par \pard \qj 
  There is one general field of Martial Arts, which instructs the student in the arts of self defense.  The student, when first an Initiate, is trained in the use.  Many in Imperial Cathay and Nippon are trained in this rudimentary style, from Imperial Ca
thaya
n Bureaucrats, to Skaven Assassins, to Nipponese Samurai.  Those who choose to study Martial Arts as Monastic Initiates will climbs in both knowledge and skill, they are instructed in the secrets of their Monastic Order.  The Orders have their own unique 
styles, employed by the order, and it is in the orders advanced style that the Martial Artist will be trained to an incredible degree.  Some of the Styles have more than one name.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par   {\ul Breeze in the Willows}
\par \pard \qj   This style is one of the defensive styles that ex
ists.  The fundamental doctrine behind this is that the practitioner employs the opponents avoid and dodges their enemies strikes, to bend and twist as a willow in the breeze.  By dodging and parrying, even the smallest parts of nature can survive the gal
e
\par   This style is one of the original Vimto styles, and it closely related to the ideas and concepts of Vimtaoism.  It originated from the original Persecuted Cults.  The order is fairly small, and centered amongst half a dozen monasteries in the outer Nort
hern Provinces of Imperial Cathay.  They are noticeable by their location near Orchards.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par   {\ul Raging Bear}
\par \pard \qj 
  The most violent and brutal form of advanced Martial Arts.  Started within a grassroots resistance movement, this is the practice of rage.  Within the rage and passion of inner turmoil, within that conflict, one seeks to embody the angry bear, unstoppab
le and terrifying for all to behold.  The student of this field is trained to strike and crush, and endure any opposing attacks.
\par \pard \qj   The Raging Bear style
 is a fairly young movement, and not a traditional Vimto one.  Rather, it grew out of popular uprisings in the South.  Although no longer proscribed by the Emperor, they are only allowed to maintain three monasteries, there are limits on the number of stu
dents, and they are closely watched by the bureaucracy.  The practitioners of this practice are not well liked by the other orders.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par   {\ul False Death}
\par   {\ul The Hand That Turns Against Itself}
\par   {\ul The Empty Handed Style}
\par \pard \qj   These three forms are the same of a long practiced art.  A relative peaceful style, it seeks to disarm it\rquote 
s opponents and then strike them senseless.  The shedding of blood is frowned upon, and those that can not control themselves, must not be allowed to bear weapons and use them.
\par \pard \qj 
  This was the most influential style in the Early monastic period.  Clinging closely to Vimtaoist thought, it focus much more on scholarship than any of the other orders.  They have few monasteries, but rather many masters and grand masters, who share th
eir knowledge with a few pupils in each region.  It is very much a hermetical order, and numerous adherents are spread about in the Central Imperial States.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par   {\ul The Mountain Stream}
\par   {\ul Timeless Wind}
\par \pard \qj 
  These styles seek to emulate the mountain stream and the winds, that wear down the great mountains by their timeless persistence.  When attacked, practitioners are taught to wait, and then strike out against their opponents, by turning their own weight 
against them.  Throws, grapples, and sweeps are all means of accomplishing this without resorting to purely violent means.
\par \pard \qj 
  This order is also one of the first Vimtaoist orders.  When the persecution under Emperor Cao Chen began, this order fled to the mountains, to preserve their holy works.  As such, they have three large monasteries, in the North, where all the adherents 
practice their arts.  The three monasteries are larger than most monasteries, and are placed high in the mountains, far from civilization.  It is difficult to find any adherents outside of the monasteries.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par   {\ul The Hooded Cobra}
\par   {\ul Striking Viper}
\par \pard \qj   Precision, deadly strikes are the expressions of this deadly form.  Artful, calculated movements form a signature of the practice.  Small in number, the practitioners of this school are greatly feared.
\par \pard \qj 
  This group has little to do with the traditional Vimtaoist orders, rather a militant martial order who seeks to use the Martial Arts for their own benefit.  Not so much an order, but rather cells or cults of practitioners.  This style of Martial Arts ha
s many practitioners in the military, the government, and criminal organizations.
\par \pard \qj 
  The followers of this order are secretive, and there is little status placed on this order, but rather the social status of the practitioner that is important.  Few practice this exclusively, but adopt it the combat styles and continue on with their nor
mal occupations.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par   {\ul Heaven\rquote s Lightning}
\par   Rapid strikes, at unexpected locations, overwhelming the foe with elemental energy.
\par \pard \qj   This style is the least traditional.  Discarding the writings of Vimta, they seek to emulate Vimta\rquote 
s lifestyle.  The Master or the Grandmaster, wander about the countryside preaching, doing good deeds, teaching a few pupils, and practicing their faith.  They are often at odds with the dogma of the other orders.  This group
 is particularly liked by the majority of the poor, but greatly disliked by the Celestial Bureaucracy which has many times ran into conflict with the practitioners of Heaven\rquote s Lightning who reject Imperial Authority.
\par \pard \qj   Heaven\rquote s Lightning has one monastery, 
which is empty except for the care taker.  Every five years, all the Grand Masters and Master return to the monastery, up high on a mountain enshrouded perpetually in Storm clouds, for a secretive meeting.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par   {\ul The Imperial Dragon Style}
\par \pard \qj   The Emperor, also known as the Imperial Dragon, had a number of master\rquote 
s gathered who created this art as an expression of Imperial Will.  Amongst the most beautiful and fluid, it is also one of the most aggressive.  Flying leaps, kicks, spins and flurries.
\par   The Imperial D
ragon Order was organized by Emperor Cao Tzu, who organized this monastery to head off the popularity of other cults.  Supported by the Emperor, it is the largest order, with a score of monasteries, with numerous pupils, spread all about the Central State
s of Imperial Cathay.
\par   Many of it\rquote s pupils go to commissions in the Imperial Army.  The most fanatical and loyal followers will become body guards to the Emperor.  Others are used to fill Imperial posts.  The many of the members of this Order are the sons 
of bureaucrats and other Imperial officials.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par \pard \qj   {\b\ul The Martial Arts
\par }\pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   In the game, each Martial Art style is treated as a weapon.  Like all other weapons, it has a bonuses or penalties to Initiative, To Hit, Damage, and Parry.  Take a close look and reexamine the table in WFRP rulebook.  
\par \pard \qj   Due to the nature of weaponless combat, and the unusual skills acquired and necessary for this fighting, Martial Artists have a unique category when it comes to parrying in their traditional styles.  They are all capable 
of parrying opponents likely armed, in other words, other opponents using no weapons or using only improvised weapons.  Parrying a well armed and trained opponent  is different.  A few of the more traditional and pacifistic schools train the user in parry
ing armed opponents.  This is covered under the Styles weapon table under {\i Parry Armed}, and a parry versus an unarmed or improvised armed opponent is under the heading {\i Parry Unarmed.}
\par \pard \qj   Although the Styles present the same bonuses despite the levels of advanc
ement, the ever changing abilities and skills will allow the Martial Artist to become far more deadlier with each level despite the absence of any level advancement in the Style Table.  The reason for this is that it is the Martial Artist himself that bec
omes deadlier, that the style is just a tool to be used, and the true strength and power resides in the person bearing and employing the weapon.
\par \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj \page 
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b\ul Martial Arts Styles Table}
\par \pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2484\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3636\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx5508\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6804\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx7956 \pard \qj\intbl {\b Style}\cell \pard \qc\intbl {\b Initiative
\par }\pard \qc\intbl \cell \pard \qc\intbl {\b To Hit}\cell \pard \qc\intbl {\b Damage}\cell \pard \qc\intbl {\b Parry Unarmed}\cell \pard \qc\intbl {\b Parry 
\par Armed}\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2484\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3636\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4356\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5508\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6804\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx7956 \pard \qj\intbl Unarmed\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -20\cell \pard \qc\intbl -3\cell \pard \qc\intbl 
-\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2484\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3636\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5508\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6804\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx7956 \pard \qj\intbl Street Fighting\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -1\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell 
\pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\intbl Wrestling \cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -3\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\intbl Basic Martial Arts\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell 
\pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\intbl Breeze in the Willows\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell 
\pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\intbl Empty Handed Style\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -10\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\intbl 
Mountain Stream Style\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl -1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -10\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\intbl Heaven\rquote s Lightning\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell \pard \qc\intbl 
+0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -20\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\intbl Hooded Cobra Style\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -
\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj\intbl Imperial Dragon\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl -20\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2484\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3636\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5508\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6804\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\cellx7956 \pard \qj\intbl Raging Bear Style\cell \pard \qc\intbl -10\cell \pard \qc\intbl +0\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl -10\cell \pard \qc\intbl -\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj Parry Unarmed:  The chance to parry a unarmed opponent while unarmed.
\par Parry Armed: The chance to parry an armed opponent while unarmed.
\par Note: a result of \ldblquote -\rdblquote  means that chance of parry is impossible.
\par   This table is only to be used when the Martial Artist in Unarmed.
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b\ul Cathayan Martial Artist Careers}
\par \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Requirements}
\par \pard \qj 
  To enter any of the Cathayan Martial Arts careers, the only entry in is through Monastic Initiate.  This is an initial career only.  PCs may only enter this career as an initial career.  They may never enter an Initiate or any other Advanced Martial Art
s Career from any other profession.  Only those pursuing Martial Arts Careers may ever learn the Advanced Styles employed by the Monastic Orders.  All others may only learn the skill 
Basic Martial Arts.  It is impossible to become a Monastic Initiate through any means other than Initial Career placement.
\par \pard \qj   The are numerous reasons for this.  The monastic existence, meditation
s, devotions and training the character gets over a minimum eight year existence is done in the PCs most formative years and is essential to the career.  The single focus of only the training is essential, and any other distractions will prevent a true un
derstanding of the path one must choose.
\par \pard \qj   All applicants must be humans, and pure of soul and body.  Mutations are reason for instant death.
\par 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Levels and Ranks of Mastery}
\par \pard   For purposes of the game, the tiers of knowledge in the Martial Arts are called {\i Levels}.  In the game, they should be called {\i Ranks of Mastery}
.  Each rank is more exceedingly difficult to learn.  As such, the First Rank costs one hundred experience points, the Second, two hundred, the Third four hundred, and the Fourth, eight hundred experience points.
\par \pard \qj   To gain a  {\i Level } or {\i Rank of Mastery}
 the applicant must return to their temple or monastery, and be judged by their superiors.  Only by this may they attain the instruction necessary.  If a Martial Artists never returns to their monastery 
for instruction, they may never advance to a greater rank.  The GM has final approval over whether the character should be allowed to advance, and stayed true to the path the monastic elders set them upon.  
\par \pard \qj 
    At the Mastery level, there are only limited openings, and it could take years to attain the position.  And at the Grand Mastery level, there may be one position, which is occupied by the Grand Master of the monastery.  He will only train a successor,
 or another one to his degree of knowledge if intending on splitting the monastery due to size.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Learning Martial Arts for Non-Martial Artists}
\par \pard \qj 
  The basic Martial Arts skill can be taught to anybody, if there is a instructor present to teach throughout the entire training period. The student must pass two simultaneous tests in a month of training.  A test may only be made if the character spent 
either five hours each day in reflecting and practicing, or a total of forty hours a week, either is deemed sufficient.  The character must acquire both Martia
l Arts: Basic, and the accompanying Basic Martial Arts Thought.  Each costs 100 experience points, and are assumed to be studied simultaneously.  For the Martial Arts Skill, the character must pass the learning test for Physical Skills.  For the Thought i
t requires a Intelligence Roll.  If both are passed, that month\rquote 
s training was successful.  For the character to acquire this skill, they must have trained for two successful months.  If instruction or studying are neglected for more than a week, than all t
he training must start all over, and all previously passed tests are disregarded.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b CAREERS}
\par \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj {\b MONASTIC INITIATE}
\par \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj {\b   Monastic Initiate
\par   Student in the Martial Arts
\par }\pard \qj {\ul 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx552\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1212\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1872\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2532\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3192\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3852\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx4512\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5172\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5832\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6492\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7152\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7812 \pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b BS
\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell }\pard \intbl {\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx552\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1212\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1872\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2532\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3192\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3852\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4512\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5172\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5832\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6492\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7152\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7812 \pard \qc\intbl {\b +}10{\b \cell }\pard \qc\intbl -\cell -\cell -\cell +2\cell -\cell 
-\cell -\cell -\cell -\cell -\cell +10\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj {\ul Skills}
\par   Basic Martial Arts Thought
\par   Cult Lore
\par   Martial Arts Practices: Basic
\par   Meditation (Initiates of the Raging Bear do not learn this)
\par 
\par {\ul Trappings}
\par   Monks Robes
\par   Sandals
\par   
\par {\ul Career Entries}
\par   Initial Only
\par 
\par {\ul Career Exits}
\par   Martial Artist of Same Style as Monastic Order
\par   Scribe
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b\ul MONASTIC ORDER CAREERS}
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b Monks of the Willows in the Breeze}{\ul 
\par }\pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl Level\cell \pard \qc\intbl WS\cell BS\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell -\cell -\cell -\cell +2\cell +10\cell +1\cell +0\cell +0\cell +10\cell +10\cell +10\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell -\cell -
\cell +1\cell +3\cell +20\cell +2\cell +10\cell +0\cell +10\cell +20\cell +20\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 3\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell -\cell -\cell +2\cell +4\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +3\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +10\cell +20\cell 
+30\cell +30\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 4\cell \pard \qc\intbl +40\cell -\cell +1\cell +2\cell +6\cell +40\cell +3\cell +30\cell +20\cell +30\cell +40\cell +40\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Skills
\par 
\par }  {\ul Level 1 Monk
\par }Cult Doctrine
\par Dodge Blow
\par Martial Arts Thought: Monk
\par 
\par \pard   {\ul Level 2 Adept}
\par Ambidextrous
\par Disarm
\par Martial Arts Thought: Adept
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 3 Master
\par }Contortionist
\par Flee
\par Ki Power: Level Three
\par \pard Martial Arts Thought: Master
\par \pard 
\par   {\ul Level 4 Grand Master
\par }Acrobatics
\par Ki Power: Level Four
\par Martial Arts Thought: Grand Master
\par Weaponless Disarm
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits
\par }Artisan
\par Artist
\par Next Monastic Level
\par \pard \qj Prophet
\par \pard \qj Seer
\par Scholar
\par Vimto Priest
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b Monks of the Empty Hand
\par }\pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl Level\cell \pard \qc\intbl WS\cell BS\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell -\cell -\cell +1\cell +2\cell +10\cell -\cell +0\cell +0\cell +10\cell +10\cell +10\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell -\cell -
\cell +1\cell +3\cell +20\cell +1\cell +10\cell +0\cell +10\cell +20\cell +20\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 3\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell -\cell +1\cell +2\cell +4\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +10\cell +20
\cell +30\cell +30\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 4\cell \pard \qc\intbl +40\cell -\cell +2\cell +3\cell +6\cell +40\cell +3\cell +30\cell +20\cell +30\cell +40\cell +40\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Skills
\par 
\par }  {\ul Level 1 Monk}
\par Cult Doctrine
\par Disarm
\par Martial Arts Thought: Monk
\par Strike to Stun
\par 
\par \pard   {\ul Level 2 Adept}
\par Ambidextrous
\par Dodge Blow
\par Martial Arts Thought: Adept
\par Weaponless Disarm
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 3 Master
\par }Ki Power Master
\par \pard Martial Arts Thought: Master
\par \pard Scale Sheer Surface
\par Strike to Stun
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 4 Grand Master
\par }Acrobatics
\par Contortionist
\par Ki Power: Grand Master
\par Martial Arts Thought: Grand Master
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits
\par }Artisan
\par Artist
\par Next Monastic Level
\par \pard \qj Prophet
\par \pard \qj Scholar
\par Vimto Priest
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b Monks of the Mountain Spring
\par }\pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl Level\cell \pard \qc\intbl WS\cell BS\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell -\cell -\cell +1\cell +2\cell +10\cell -\cell +0\cell +0\cell +10\cell +10\cell +10\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell -\cell 
+1\cell +1\cell +3\cell +20\cell +1\cell +10\cell +0\cell +10\cell +20\cell +20\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 3\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell +10\cell +1\cell +2\cell +4\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +10\cell +30
\cell +30\cell +30\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 4\cell \pard \qc\intbl +40\cell +20\cell +2\cell +2\cell +6\cell +40\cell +3\cell +30\cell +20\cell +40\cell +40\cell +40\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Skills
\par 
\par }  {\ul Level 1 Monk}
\par Cult Doctrine 
\par Dodge Blow
\par Martial Arts Thought: Monk
\par Throw Opponent
\par 
\par \pard   {\ul Level 2 Adept}
\par Acrobatics
\par Ambidextrous
\par Grappling
\par Martial Arts Thought: Adept
\par   
\par   {\ul Level 3 Master}
\par Contortionist
\par \pard Ki Power: Master
\par \pard Martial Arts Thought: Master{\ul 
\par }Specialist Weapon: Thrown
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 4 Grand Master
\par }Ki Power: Grand Master
\par Martial Arts Thought: Grand Master
\par Sixth Sense
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits
\par }Artisan
\par Artist
\par Next Monastic Level
\par \pard \qj Prophet
\par \pard \qj Seer
\par Scholar
\par Vimto Priest
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b Heaven\rquote s Lightning}
\par \pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl Level\cell \pard \qc\intbl WS\cell BS\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +10\cell -\cell -\cell +2\cell +20\cell +1\cell +10\cell +0\cell +10\cell +10\cell +10\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +20
\cell +1\cell -\cell +3\cell +30\cell +2\cell +20\cell +0\cell +10\cell +20\cell +20\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 3\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell +30\cell +1\cell -\cell +4\cell +40\cell \pard \qc\intbl +3\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell +10\cell 
+30\cell +30\cell +32\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 4\cell \pard \qc\intbl +40\cell +40\cell +1\cell -\cell +6\cell +40\cell +4\cell +40\cell +20\cell +40\cell +40\cell +40\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Skills
\par 
\par }  {\ul Level 1 Friend of the Breeze
\par }Acute Hearing
\par Acrobatics
\par Cult Doctrine
\par Martial Arts Thought: Breeze
\par Specialist Weapon Thrown
\par 
\par \pard   {\ul Level 2 Brother of the Wind}
\par Ambidextrous
\par Martial Arts Thought: Wind
\par Scale Sheer Surface
\par Strike to Injure
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 3 Brother of the Storms
\par }\pard Dodge Blow
\par \pard Ki Powers: Storm{\ul 
\par }Martial Arts Thought: Storm
\par Sixth Sense
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 4 Brother of the Gales}
\par Fleet Footed
\par Ki Powers: Gale 
\par Lightning Reflexes{\ul 
\par }Martial Arts Thought: Gale
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits
\par }Astrologer
\par Next Monastic Level
\par Prophet
\par Seer
\par \pard \qj Scholar
\par \pard \qj Vimto Priest
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b Monks of the Hooded Cobra}
\par \pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl Level\cell \pard \qc\intbl WS\cell BS\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell -\cell +1\cell -\cell +2\cell +10\cell -\cell +10\cell +0\cell +10\cell +10\cell +10\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +10
\cell +1\cell -\cell +3\cell +20\cell +1\cell +20\cell +0\cell +10\cell +20\cell +20\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 3\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell +20\cell +2\cell -\cell +4\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell +0\cell 
+20\cell +30\cell +30\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 4\cell \pard \qc\intbl +40\cell +30\cell +2\cell -\cell +6\cell +40\cell +3\cell +40\cell +10\cell +30\cell +40\cell +40\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Skills
\par 
\par }  {\ul Level 1 Monk}
\par Ambidextrous
\par Cult Lore
\par Dance
\par Martial Arts Thought: Monk
\par Strike to Injure
\par 
\par \pard   {\ul Level 2 Adept}
\par Contortionist
\par Dodge Blow
\par Martial Arts Thought: Adept
\par Specialist Weapon Blowpipe
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 3 Master
\par }\pard Hypnotism
\par \pard Ki Power: Master
\par Martial Arts Thought: Master
\par Prepare Poison
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 4 Grandmaster
\par }Immunity to Poison
\par Ki Power: Grand Master
\par Martial Arts Thought: Grand Master
\par Sixth Sense
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits}
\par Assassin (Cathayan Masters Only){\ul 
\par }Next Monastic Level
\par \pard \qj Ninja (Nipponese Masters Only)
\par \pard \qj Spy
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b The Sons of the Imperial Dragon
\par }\pard \qj 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl Level\cell \pard \qc\intbl WS\cell BS\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell -\cell +1\cell -\cell +2\cell +10\cell +1\cell +0\cell +10\cell +10\cell +0\cell +10\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell -\cell 
+1\cell +1\cell +3\cell +20\cell +1\cell +10\cell +20\cell +20\cell +10\cell +20\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 3\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell -\cell +2\cell +1\cell +4\cell +30\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +30\cell +30
\cell +20\cell +30\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1416\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2076\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2736\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3396\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4056\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4716\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5376\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx6036\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6696\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7356\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8016\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8676 \pard \qc\intbl 4\cell \pard \qc\intbl +40\cell -\cell +2\cell +2\cell +6\cell +40\cell +3\cell +30\cell +40\cell +40\cell +30\cell +40\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Skills
\par 
\par }  {\ul Level 1 Son of the Imperial Dragon}
\par Cult Doctrine
\par Intimidate
\par Martial Arts Thought: Son of the Imperial Dragon
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par 
\par \pard   {\ul Level 2 Brother of the Order}
\par Acrobatics
\par Influence
\par Martial Arts Thought: Brother of the Order
\par Strike to Injure
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 3 Uncle of the Order}
\par Ambidextrous
\par \pard Dodge Blow
\par \pard Ki Power: Uncle of the Order{\ul 
\par }Law
\par Martial Arts Thought: Uncle of the Order
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 4 Father of the Order, Brother of the Emperor}
\par Disarm{\ul 
\par }Dynastic Knowledge
\par Heraldry
\par Ki Power: Father of the Order, Brother of the Emperor
\par Martial Arts Thought: Father of the Order
\par Scale Sheer Surface
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits}
\par Assassin (Masters Only){\ul 
\par }Diplomat (Masters Only)
\par \pard \qj Imperial Bureaucrat
\par \pard \qj Imperial Governor (Masters Only)
\par Imperial Officer (Masters Only)
\par \pard Next Monastic Level
\par \pard \qj Priest-Celestial Dragon
\par \pard \qj Scholar
\par Soldier
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b Monks of the Raging Bear}
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1467\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2178\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2754\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3330\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4041\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4752\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5463\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6174\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6885\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7596\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8307\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\cellx9018 \pard \qc\intbl {\b Level\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell BS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b S          \cell T\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell }\pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108
\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1467\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2178\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2754\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3330\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4041\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4752\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5463\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6174\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6885\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7596\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8307\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx9018 \pard \qc\intbl 1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +1{\b \cell }-\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell +0\cell -\cell +0\cell +0\cell +10\cell +0\cell +0\cell \pard \intbl \row 
\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1467\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2178\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2754\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3330\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4041\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4752\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5463\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6174\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6885\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7596\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8307\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\cellx9018 \pard \qc\intbl 2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell -\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell +1\cell \pard \qc\intbl +4\cell +0\cell +1\cell +0\cell +10\cell +20\cell +10\cell +10\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qc\intbl 3\cell \pard \qc\intbl +30\cell -\cell 
\pard \qc\intbl +3\cell +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +6\cell +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl +2\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell +20\cell +20\cell +20\cell +20\cell \pard \intbl \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108\trbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \trbrdrh\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \trbrdrv\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx756\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1467\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2178\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2754\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3330\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4041\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4752\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx5463\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6174\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6885\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7596\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8307\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx9018 \pard \qc\intbl 4\cell \pard \qc\intbl +40\cell -\cell 
\pard \qc\intbl +3\cell +3\cell \pard \qc\intbl +8\cell +20\cell +3\cell +20\cell +30\cell +30\cell +30\cell +30\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\ul Skills
\par 
\par }  {\ul Level 1 Brother Anger}
\par Cult Doctrine
\par Intimidate
\par Martial Arts Thought: Brother Anger
\par Strike Mighty Blow
\par 
\par \pard   {\ul Level 2 Brother Fury}
\par Frenzied Attack
\par Martial Arts Thought: Brother Fury
\par Meditation
\par Strike to Injure
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 3 Brother Wrath
\par }\pard Ki Power: Brother Wrath{\ul 
\par }\pard Martial Arts Thought: Brother Wrath
\par Wrestling
\par 
\par   {\ul Level 4: Father Rage}
\par Ki Power: Father Rage{\ul 
\par }Martial Arts Thought: Father Rage
\par Strongman
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits}
\par Agitator
\par Demagogue (Masters Only){\ul 
\par }Next Monastic Level
\par Political Reactionary
\par \pard \qj Protagonist
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Additional Careers}
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b HONORED FATHER}
\par \pard \qj   The Honored Father is the highest level attainable to a Master.  The Honored Father is the leader of a monastery, spending most of his or her time giving guidance and meditating.  The Honored Father is the central focus of the monastery.{\ul 

\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx552\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1212\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1872\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2532\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3192\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3852\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx4512\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5172\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5832\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6492\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7152\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7812\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8472 \pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b BS\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {
\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx552\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1212\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1872\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2532\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3192\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3852\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4512\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5172\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5832\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6492\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7152\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7812\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8472 \pard \qc\intbl {\b +}40{\b \cell }\pard \qc\intbl -\cell -\cell -\cell +6\cell +40
\cell -\cell \cell +40\cell +40\cell +40\cell +40\cell +20\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Skills}
\par Artistic Mastery (usually Calligraphy or Painting)
\par Etiquette
\par Influence
\par History (Cult)
\par Magic Sense
\par Philosophy
\par Read/Write
\par Rhetoric
\par Story Telling
\par Wit
\par 
\par   {\ul Trappings}
\par Simple Robes
\par Sandals
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Entries}
\par Level Four Master Only
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits}
\par None
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b SILENT MASTER}{\b\ul 
\par }\pard \qj   The Silent Master is a Master, who like the Wandering 
Master, has left his monastery to travel about,  traveling in solitude, and quietly contemplating the sun set on a summer day, or the swaying of the cherry trees in a gentle Spring wind, or basking in the falling of the cherry blossoms.
\par \pard \qj 
  The Silent Master has made a vow to live a hermit-like existence, and never speaking to anybody.  The Silent Master must rest his soul in the oneness of the universe, never speaking out, but being carried about through life like a leaf caught in a strea
m.  He cannot kill, but must eat of the fruits of the world, consuming only that that is offered them.
\par \pard \qj {\ul 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx552\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1212\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1872\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2532\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3192\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3852\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx4512\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5172\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5832\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6492\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7152\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7812\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8472 \pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b BS\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {
\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx552\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1212\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1872\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2532\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3192\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3852\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4512\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5172\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5832\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6492\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7152\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7812\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8472 \pard \qc\intbl {\b +}40{\b \cell }\pard \qc\intbl -\cell -\cell +3\cell +6\cell +30
\cell +2\cell +30\cell +0\cell +20\cell +40\cell +40\cell +0\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Skills}
\par Astronomy
\par Charm Animal
\par Concealment Rural
\par Identify Plant
\par Heal Wounds
\par Herb Lore
\par Mime
\par Orientation
\par Philosophy
\par Specialist Weapon Two-handed
\par 
\par   {\ul Trappings}
\par Quarter Staff made of Stout Fallen Branch
\par Simple Robe made of Sackcloth
\par Sandals
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Entries}
\par Martial Arts Master Rank 3 or 4
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits}
\par Martial Arts Master Rank 4
\par Prophet
\par Philosopher
\par Seer
\par Zen Master
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b WANDERING MASTER}{\b\ul 
\par }\pard \qj 
  The Wandering Master is a Master who has left his monastery to travel about, learning from the patterns of ripples in a lake, or experiencing the wisdom whispered by falling leaves.  Seen meditating on mountain tops, on rocks in the middle of a roaring 
stream, or discovering absolute nothingness of true silence and solitude near the bottom of a thunderous waterfall.
\par \pard \qj   The Wandering Master may speak to others in their quest for the {\i Elusive Seven Truths }or the {\i Six Blissful Miseries}
.  Some choose to lead an existence of a hermit, others work with the common peasants, eating their food and living with them.
\par \pard \qj   The most famous Wandering Masters wander the earth, living a nomadic existence righting wrong and fighting evil, and seeking nothing in return.
\par \pard \qj {\ul 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx552\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1212\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1872\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2532\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3192\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3852\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx4512\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5172\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5832\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6492\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7152\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7812\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8472 \pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b BS\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {
\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx552\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1212\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1872\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2532\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3192\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3852\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4512\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5172\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5832\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6492\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7152\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7812\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8472 \pard \qc\intbl {\b +}40{\b \cell }\pard \qc\intbl -\cell -\cell +2\cell +6\cell +30
\cell +2\cell +20\cell \pard \qc\intbl +10\cell \pard \qc\intbl +20\cell +20\cell +20\cell +30\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Skills}
\par One Art or Artisan Skill
\par Charm
\par Heal Wounds
\par Herb Lore
\par Luck
\par Orientation
\par Philosophy
\par Rhetoric (For those without a vow of silence)
\par Specialist Weapon Two-handed
\par Story Telling
\par Wit
\par 
\par   {\ul Trappings}
\par Quarter Staff
\par Simple Robes
\par Sandals
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Entries}
\par Martial Arts Master Rank 3 or 4
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits}
\par Beggar
\par Martial Arts Master Rank 4
\par Philosopher
\par Zen Master
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b ZEN MASTER}
\par \pard \qj 
  The Zen Master is a master who has sought out the existence of nothingness, and seen his or her soul reflected in it, and chooses to never see anything again.  Many blind themselves, others simply wear blindfolds.  They attain such a degree of self-awar
eness, that they may fire bows or pr
actice Martial Arts with no loss of skill.  They will often remain as guardians of the monastery, using their longbows blindfolded with no loss of accuracy, as their will alone guides their arrows.  They are the most feared of Archers.
\par \pard \qj 
\par {\ul 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx552\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1212\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1872\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2532\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3192\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3852\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx4512\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5172\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5832\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6492\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7152\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7812\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8472 \pard \qc\intbl {\b WS\cell }\pard \qc\intbl {\b BS\cell S\cell T\cell W\cell I\cell A\cell Dex\cell Ld\cell Int\cell Cl\cell WP\cell Fel\cell }\pard \intbl {
\b \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx552\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1212\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx1872\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2532\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3192\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx3852\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4512\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5172\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx5832\clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6492\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7152\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx7812\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx8472 \pard \qc\intbl {\b +}20{\b \cell }\pard \qc\intbl +40\cell -\cell -\cell \pard 
\qc\intbl +6\cell \pard \qc\intbl +40\cell -\cell -\cell -\cell +20\cell +40\cell +40\cell +0\cell \pard \intbl \row \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Skills}
\par Acute Hearing
\par Marksmanship
\par Martial Arts Thought-Zen Archery Mastery
\par Mimic
\par Sixth Sense
\par Specialist Weapon-Long Bow
\par Specialist Weapon-Thrown
\par Zen Ki Power
\par 
\par   {\ul Trappings}
\par Monks Robes
\par Sandals
\par   
\par   {\ul Career Entries}
\par Martial Arts Master Level 3 or 4
\par Silent Master
\par Wandering Master
\par 
\par   {\ul Career Exits}
\par Martial Artist Master Level 4
\par 
\par \pard \qj \page 
\par \pard \qj {\b\ul Descriptions of Skills}
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par \pard \qj   {\b Ki Powers}{\ul 
\par }\pard \qj   Ki powers are the unleashed trained potential of the Martial Arts practitioner.  For the Master or Grand Master of an art, they\rquote 
re knowledge and training are so complete, that they are capable of deeds and actions that few others are.  They may only use the skill if they have acquired the Martial Arts Thought skill of the same rank (Level) as the Ki Power.
\par   A Ki power is usable once a day for a Level or Rank three character (A Master or other equal title) and twice a day for a Level or Rank four practitioner (a Grandmaster or equal title).  a day is equal to a twenty four hour period.  They may not use it 
again until they have meditated for at least four hours, even if a twenty four hour period has elapsed.
\par \pard \qj   To use the skill, the Master or Grandmaster make a WP test at the start of the round..  Success means that the character has lapsed into an altered state of consciousness, in tune with their body, their mind, they\rquote 
re soul, and the universe in a harmony of contemplation.  They are then free to wreak vengeance on the world.  If unsuccessful, they are unable to try again until they twenty four hours later and after proper meditation for a four hour period.
\par \pard \qj   At the start of the round, after the successful roll, the character is then imbued with the power of the power at the rank or level he attempted to use.  The power can have a duration e
qual to the level of the Martial Artist.  Normally, after the first round, the power elapses.  However, the character may continue to use this power a second round, by making a WP test at -10.  If successful, the WP is reduced until meditation, and the ch
aracter continues to use the power.  If unsuccessful, the WP is reduced, but the character can has lost the Ki focus and can no longer use it until proper rest.
\par \pard \qj   After the second round, it can be continued, but the WP test is at a further -10, for a cumula
tive penalty of -20.  If the character is a Grandmaster, then they may continue to exert WP to maintain it for a fourth round, but the penalty is a further -10 to WP for a total cumulative penalty of -30 to WP.
\par \pard \qj   First round:  No penalty to WP
\par   Second round: -10 to WP
\par   Third Round: -20 to WP
\par   Fourth Round: -30 to WP
\par \pard \qj   As stated above, this loss of WP is permanent until four hours of meditation.  The first hours does not reduce the WP loss.  Every hour there after reduces the WP loss by ten.
\par \pard \qj   Note:  Ki powers can not be used in conjunction with each other.
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b Ki Powers by Martial Arts Styles}
\par \pard \qj   
\par   {\ul Breeze in the Willows}
\par \pard \qj     {\ul Master Ki Power}
:  The Master has the ability to break a non magical weapon with their bare hands!  Under the influence of the Ki power, and weapon parried, may possibly be broken.  After a successful parry by the Master, he may make a further WS test at -10.  If success
ful, the weapon is broken.  Magical Weapons may not be broken.  Each parry must take up an attack.
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Grandmaster Ki Power}:
  The Grandmaster may parry almost any attack made against them.  All thrown missiles, arrows, and crossbows may be batted away, as well as any melee strikes against the Grandmaster.  The penalty for missile attacks is -20, the penalty for melee attacks a
re the same as listed on the Martial Arts Style Chart.  The Grandmaster may not make any attacks while under the influence, as the Grandmaster is too busy focusing on the opponents.
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\ul Empty Handed Style}
\par \pard \qj     {\ul Master Ki Power}:  The Master is so proficient, th
at while under the influence of this Ki power, all successful attacks by the Master against an opponent cause the opponent stuck to test Vs Toughness to maintain consciousness.  This test must be done for each damage causing strike.  Failure against the T
 test causes the opponent to be struck senseless, and {\i stunned} as for the rules under Stuns in the WFRP rulebook under Combat.
\par \pard \qj   {\ul Grandmaster Ki Power}:  The Grandmaster, when using this power and not attacking, may Dodge all melee and missile attacks directed
 against them.  A roll versus I is required for each dodge against each attack.  The Grandmaster, while using this Ki power, is successful in dodging Magic Missile attacks, takes no damage, and even when not successful, under the influence of this, takes 
half damage.
\par \pard \qj   
\par   {\ul Mountain Stream Style
\par }\pard \qj     {\ul Master Ki Power}:  The master, when throwing an opponent, may wind them, or attempt to disable them.  When the opponent is thrown, they must test versus Toughness, or be stunned, as the Stun rules in the WFRP ruleb
ook under Stuns.  They then count as a prone target.
\par \pard \qj     {\ul Grandmaster Ki Power}
: Riposte.  The Grandmaster, may attempt to use their free Dodge or Parry an attack with one of their own.  If this is successful, the Grandmaster may then attempt to throw the opponent using a free attack.  This may be done with the Free dodge, and the f
our attacks the Grandmaster has for a total of five ripostes!
\par \pard \qj   
\par   {\ul Heaven\rquote s Thunder}
\par \pard \qj     {\ul Master Ki Power}:  Shocking Speed:  The Master may make all attacks before anybody else, rega
rdless of Initiative and charge double the normal distance allowed in combat.  All attacks made by the Master may still be dodged or parried however.  When two rival Masters with this power are fighting, the one with the highest Initiative goes first, fol
lowed by the slower one, then all participants may act as usual.
\par \pard \qj    {\ul Grandmaster Ki Power}:  Lightning Strikes.  All of the Grand Master\rquote s attacks are so swift and certain, that all opponents (even those defending with Ki powers) suffer -20 on all attempts to Parry or Dodge the Grand Master\rquote 
s attacks.  And when used in conjunction with the Strike to Injure skill, the modifier to alter the hit locations is doubled.
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\ul Hooded Cobra}
\par \pard \qj     {\ul Master Ki Power}:  Strike with certainty.  The Master may choose the hit location for any strikes while under the influence of the Ki Power.  No roll is necessary.
\par \pard \qj    {\ul Grandmaster Ki Power}:  Death Strike.  One of the most feared powers of all.  The Grand Master strikes at the most vulnerable locations on the body with deadly accuracy
.  When a strike hits, and damage is rolled for, a Grandmaster using this Ki Power will do additional damage on a 5 or 6, rather than 6 alone!  On a roll of 5 or 6, the Grandmaster must still test against WP to see if the damage is incurred.  If the roll 
is successful, any further rolls only do damage on a 6.
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\ul Imperial Dragon Style}
\par \pard \qj     {\ul Master Ki Power}: Spinning Dragon Kick.  When using this Ki Power, the Master may attack all engaged opponents with this kick.  Each Spinning Dragon Kick counts as an attack
, and all opponents in melee combat with the Master may be struck.  The Master rolls against all opponents at -10 to WS.  Damage is rolled as normal.
\par \pard \qj     {\ul Grandmaster Ki Power}
:  Flying Leap Kick.  While under this power, all attacks the Grandmaster makes are Flying Leap Kicks.  Each kick is considered a charge, adding +10 to WS (no bonus for winning a combat is allowed).  The Grandmaster may attack any target in Charge range, 
and may change targets with no loss of attack.  Any opponent successfully struck by
 this kick, must test Vs I or be knocked prone for the rest of  round.  And further attacks by the Grandmaster on a prone target is essentially jumping up and down on the hapless fool, no to hit roll necessary, double damage...It requires the use of an At
tack for the opponent to get up.  
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\ul Raging Bear}
\par \pard \qj    {\ul Master Ki Power}:  Aura of Wrath.  The Master when using this, is immune to all psychology effects, causes Fear, and increases damage caused by the Masters attacks by one, and damage received from opponent
s melee and missile attacks by one.
\par \pard \qj    {\ul Grandmaster Ki Power}: Burst of Rage.  The Grand Master\rquote 
s body takes on a shroud of Rage and invulnerability.  All failed magic tests may be repeated once, on the WP of the Grandmaster alone, irrespective of the amount of MP invested to reduce the WP test originally.  The Gra
ndmaster also gets WP tests to avoid Stuns and Grapples.  Finally, while under the influence of this power, the Grandmaster may (temporarily) ignore any results of Critical Hits until the Ki Power e
xpires or the Grandmaster fails a WP test to maintain it.  After this period, the effect of all critical hits is then applied after the Burst of Rage passes simultaneously.
\par \pard \qj 
\par   {\ul Zen Ki Power}
\par \pard \qj   There is only one rank of this, and this may be taken by anybody who has completed a Level of Mastery (Rank Three or Four) and has seen the \ldblquote emptiness of the human soul\rdblquote 
, and will no longer see again.  When they become a Zen Master, they gain the peculiar ability to hear incredibly well and \ldblquote see\rdblquote  things around them.  Although they have lost their sight, they can see in their \ldblquote mind\rquote 
s eye\rdblquote  perfectly.  As such, they suffer no penalties in darkness, and they cannot be blinded.  They are not fooled by invisibility, and should be treated as if they were not blind.  This Zen K
i Power is always in operation, and allows them to act as if completely unimpaired.  They can even tell the color and fabric of others clothing by \ldblquote listening\rdblquote  to the cloth.
\par \pard \qj 
\par 
\par \pard \qj {\b Martial Arts Thought}
\par \pard \qj   On the attaining of each level, the Martial Artist is taugh
t new things about their body, their spirit, and their art.  Before any advances can be bought, or any further skills, they must first spend experience points on attaining this new level of \ldblquote consciousness\rdblquote 
.  After this is purchased, the character may then
 proceed to buy skills as normal.  For each level of Martial Arts Thought, there is a benefit.  When the character purchases this skill, at each Rank of Mastery, they may choose one of the following benefits.  Each benefit may only be chosen once, and the
 Zen Skills are only allowed to be taken by a Zen Master.  The bonuses listed are automatic as long as the character is conscious and active.
\par \pard \qj 
\par Purifying Blood: +10 to Poison Tests.
\par 
\par Cleansed Body: +10 to Disease Tests.
\par 
\par Purity of Mind: Character may make second WP test to pass failed Insanity test.  If second test is
\par   passed, then the Insanity points are not gained.
\par 
\par Leaping Cat: double fall ranges of Acrobatics.
\par 
\par Craftsmanship Focus: +10 to Dexterity, cumulative with Ambidextrous.
\par 
\par Ambidexterity.  As the Ambidexterity skill, cumulative with Craftsmanship Focus.
\par 
\par Discipline of the Body: life expectancy increased by +50%, effects of aging halved.
\par 
\par Discipline of the Mind: second Magic Test versus half of the Masters Will Power.
\par 
\par Winds of Chance: all non-skill related risk tests are modified in favor of the player by +10%.
\par 
\par Speed of the Hawk: For Initiative purposes only, the Initiative of the Martial Artist is raised by ten.
\par 
\par \pard \qj Zen Archery Mastery: The Zen Archer may fire in total darkness or blinded, with no penalty if they pass a successful Int test, and may fire their weapon falling or while on fire if they pass a WP test.
\par \pard \qj 
\par \pard \qj\sb240 {\b Throwing
\par }\pard \qj\sb240   This skill is similar to grappling.  However, when a successful WS test is made when using this skill (which takes up an attack), the opponent is thrown and must make an Initiative test.  A failed Initiative Test
 means the opponent loses an action, and a critical failure (a roll over Inititive, which is a double, eg. 77, 88, or 99) means the thrown opponent loses an attack and until their next free 
action is considered a prone target.  A successful Initiative test means the opponent rolled out, and suffers no loss of action other than their next attack will be delayed by their I -10.
\par \pard \qj   
\par }