{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f16\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02027200000000000000}Caslon Antique;}
{\f17\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020404030301010803}Garamond;}{\f18\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f19\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f21\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f22\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f23\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f120\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Garamond CE;}{\f121\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Garamond Cyr;}{\f123\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Garamond Greek;}
{\f124\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Garamond Tur;}{\f125\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Garamond Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title New Rules For}{\author Carsten Schwartz}{\operator Carsten Schwartz}{\creatim\yr1997\mo10\dy9\hr13\min54}
{\revtim\yr1997\mo10\dy9\hr13\min54}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords630}{\nofchars3592}{\*\company Image Tech}{\nofcharsws4411}{\vern89}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl851\margr567 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\lytprtmet\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \psz9\linex0\cols2\colsx284\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2
\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \adjustright \fs20\lang2057\cgrid {\f16\fs27 NEW RULES FOR WOUNDS AND COMBAT IN WFRP
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f17\fs16 Made By Kenneth Madsen & Carsten Schwartz (c) 1992.
\par }{\f17 
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar\adjustright {\f17 As to make combat and damage in such, and perhaps invoke greater respect for the effects that is present, when one engage in melee, I have put together some new optional rules.
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar\adjustright {\f17 
\par The "Wound Pool" on the Character Sheet, has to be distributed to the various parts of the body, i.e. head, legs, etc. The effects of combat will become more detailed and will, perhaps, allow greater damage to be done to one or more body parts, so that th
e adventurer could still be alive, at least if medical, or magical , treatment is available.
\par 
\par The distibution of Wounds to the various locations will take place by calculating it in percent. It will be as follows:
\par 
\par Head\tab Arms\tab \tab Body\tab Legs
\par 75%  \tab 100% each \tab 150% \tab 110% each 
\par 
\par Each player will, of course, have to make five boxes, a humanoid silouette or whatever, in order to keep the score up.
\par 
\par }{\b\f17 Shock Damage: }{\f17 A Character who takes a great deal of damage all at once,runs the risk of being knocked out, or (in a very unheroic manner) faint.
\par 
\par If a Character takes half his current Wound score or more in a single blow, he will have to take a Toughness test in order to remain conscious. If the test is not successful he will become unconscious and then the Mon
ster will very probably tear him apart. The test has to be repeated every time a character is hit for half, or more, of his current Woundscore. 
\par 
\par }{\b\f17 Healing Time: }{\f17 
With the distribution of Wounds on the different locations, it is only natural that the healing time changes along. For example, if a Wizard or a Cleric cast Cure Light Wounds on a wounded character, he is only healed in one location, and not in all the d
amaged locations. I feel
\par that this makes things a little more interesting, especially if a charac
ter is severely wounded and there is no one who is capable of casting the appropriate spell, giving the required medical treatment or giving a Healing Potion. How will the character be saved? How far is it to the nearest Physician, and will the wounds bec
ome infected and thereby requiring an amputation?
\par 
\par As characters sleep, they still receive a Wound, although this is on every location. The same goes for Healing Potions, being an extremely potent magical brew, it will heal a character 2D6 Wounds up on ever
y location and the GameMaster should therefore be very carefull with his distribution of  such potions. A physician also attends one location at a time, but if it is prolonged treatment, the character will still be healed for 7 + T Wounds points. For this
 to work, the character has to rest completely and any sort of physical efforts, could very possible destroy the bodys healing work.
\par 
\par }{\b\f17 Optional Rule:}{\f17  As an optional rule, the GM can rule that the character also looses attacks whenever Shock damage occurs. As
 a basic rule, it can be said that the character, who makes a successful T test, will loose the half of his attacks in that round. If the character makes a T test, and succeeds with 20+, he will only loose 1 attack. But if it the other way around and the 
character only makes a marginal save, he will loose +1 Attack. This can continue indefinately and the character \{\\bf will\} be able
\par to loose Attacks for the folllowing rounds. 
\par 
\par We believe that the optional rule illustrates what happens when one recieve such
 a chrushing blow. You begin to stagger, the fighting abilities decreases in effectiveness and so on. Also if one has been damaged in one body part for half of its total Wound score, or more, he will also receive penalties
\par to certain actions. Penalties that any GM will be able to determine in each case.
\par 
\par }{\b\f17 Wound Score:}{\f17 
\par Head Arms Body Legs
\par 01   01   01   02   01
\par 02   01   02   03   02
\par 03   02   03   05   03
\par 04   03   04   06   04
\par 05   04   05   08   05
\par 06   04   06   09   07
\par 07   05   07   11   08
\par 08   06   08   12   09
\par 09   07   09   14   10
\par 10   07   10   15   11
\par 11   08   11   17   12
\par 12   09   12   18   13
\par 13   10   13   20   14
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar\adjustright {\f17 14   10   14   21   15
\par }\pard \qj\widctlpar\adjustright {\f17 15   11   15   23   16
\par 16   12   16   24   18
\par 17   13   17   26   19
\par 18   13   18   27   20
\par 19   14   19   29   21
\par 20   15   20   30   22
\par 21   16   21   32   23
\par 22   16   22   33   24
\par 23   17   23   35   25
\par 24   18   24   36   26
\par 25   19   25   38   27
\par 26   19   26   39   29
\par 27   20   27   41   30
\par 28   21   28   42   31
\par 29   22   29   44   32
\par 30   22   30   45   33
\par }}