{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Tms Rmn;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helv;}{\f3\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier;}
{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f6\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Serif;}{\f7\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 MS Sans Serif;}{\f8\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times;}{\f9\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Helvetica;}
{\f10\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 System;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f12\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 New York;}{\f13\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Geneva;}{\f14\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Marlett;}{\f15\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings;}
{\f16\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Comic Sans MS;}{\f17\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 MT Extra;}{\f18\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Narrow;}{\f19\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Black;}{\f20\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Rounded MT Bold;}
{\f21\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Book Antiqua;}{\f22\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Bookman Old Style;}{\f23\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Century Schoolbook;}{\f24\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Haettenschweiler;}{\f25\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Algerian;}
{\f26\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Braggadocio;}{\f27\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Britannic Bold;}{\f28\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Brush Script MT;}{\f29\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Colonna MT;}{\f30\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Desdemona;}
{\f31\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Footlight MT Light;}{\f32\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Garamond;}{\f33\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Impact;}{\f34\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Kino MT;}{\f35\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Wide Latin;}
{\f36\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Matura MT Script Capitals;}{\f37\fdecor\fcharset0\fprq2 Playbill;}{\f38\fmodern\fcharset2\fprq1 MS LineDraw;}{\f39\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 News Gothic MT;}{\f40\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Lucida Handwriting;}
{\f41\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Lucida Sans;}{\f42\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Lucida Sans Unicode;}{\f43\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Century Gothic;}{\f44\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 OCR A Extended;}{\f45\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Calisto MT;}
{\f46\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Abadi MT Condensed Light;}{\f47\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Copperplate Gothic Bold;}{\f48\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Copperplate Gothic Light;}{\f49\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Lucida Console;}{\f50\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 MS Reference 1;}
{\f51\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2 MS Reference 2;}{\f52\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Times New Roman Special G1;}{\f53\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Times New Roman Special G2;}{\f54\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Verdana;}{\f55\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Abadi MT Condensed;}
{\f56\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings 2;}{\f57\froman\fcharset2\fprq2 Wingdings 3;}{\f58\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq1 MS Dialog;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\widctlpar \f4\fs20\lang2057 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar \b\f5\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\cs15 \additive\fs16 \sbasedon10 annotation reference;}{
\s16\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs40\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon1\snext17 GH-Major Heading;}{\s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext17 GH-Normal;}{
\s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon16\snext17 GH-Minor Heading;}{\s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 
\sbasedon18\snext19 GH-Description;}{\s20\li397\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar \scaps\f43\fs22\lang2057\kerning28 \sbasedon18\snext17 GH-Sub Heading;}{\s21\widctlpar \f4\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext21 annotation text;}{\s22\sb120\sa120\widctlpar 
\b\f4\fs20\lang2057 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}}{\info{\title GURPS-HAMMER }{\author Roger Kay}{\operator Roger Kay}{\creatim\yr1996\mo9\dy23\hr22\min10}{\revtim\yr1997\mo1\dy14\hr20\min42}{\version86}{\edmins1553}{\nofpages30}{\nofwords7062}
{\nofchars40256}{\*\company  }{\vern57431}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\formshade \fet0\sectd \linex0\headery709\footery709\colsx709\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\qc\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrth\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrth\brdrw45\brsp20 \f4\fs20\lang2057 {\scaps\f47\fs90 GURPS - Hammer}{\f40\fs72  }{\f16\fs72 
\par }\pard \qc\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrth\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrth\brdrw45\brsp20 {\f48\fs24 GURPS Conversion Rules for Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay}
\par \pard \widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrth\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrth\brdrw45\brsp20 
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar This is an initial attempt at GURPS conversion rules for Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay. It contains conversion rules for the more basic elements of Warhammer like careers, characters, a
nd tests. It introduces a magic system largely based on the Warhammer Rulebook but with modifications devised by myself. It also includes a completely new way to look at clerical magic.  It is missing a section on how to handle character progression and (
after play testing this for a few months) I think I would like to replace fright tests with the more colourful Insanity Point system. I intend to add to and improve this document in future (it\rquote 
s still a little rough, I know) and any feedback would be great.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\fs16 
This document is available for personal use only. You may make copies and extract sections but you must acknowledge the author  in new versions and you must get the authors permission if you intend publishing or selling any part of this document.
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\fs16 
\par The Author: Roger Kay
\par E-Mail: r.kay@nz.dialogic.com
\par Snail-Mail: 55A Salisbury Road, Birkdale, Auckland, New Zealand}
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs40\lang2057\kerning28 \page  0. Contents
\par \pard\plain \fi142\widctlpar \f4\fs20\lang2057 {\f48\fs44 
\par }\pard \fi142\widctlpar {\f48\fs24 1.\tab New Advantages and Disadvantages
\par 
\par 2.\tab New Skills
\par 
\par 3.\tab Race Packages
\par 
\par 4.\tab Generating GURPS Characters for the Warhammer World
\par 
\par 5.\tab General Conversions
\par 
\par 6.\tab Sorcerous Magicks
\par }\pard \fi142\widctlpar {\f48\fs24 
\par 7.\tab Clerical Magicks
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s16\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs40\lang2057\kerning28 \page 1. Advantages and Disadvantages
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 New Advantages and Disadvantages
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par The following new advantages are available for GURPS-Hammer:
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Fate\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab          10 points/Level
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
Your deity takes an interest in your welfare and may have marked you to do something important. If you are in difficulty and in danger of not fulfilling your destiny then your deity may intervene in worldly affairs and set things back on track. In most ca
ses th
is means preventing your death but sometimes this may mean some less tangible intervention. If you rely to much on fate you may find your deity will tire of pulling your fat from the fire and just let you fail. For each level of fate you buy your deity wi
ll intervene once in your favour. When this intervention takes place this advantage should be reduced by one level (or removed). The maximum amount of fate that can be taken is 3 levels. Dwarves may only take 2 levels and Elves can only take a single leve
l of fate. 
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Hatred (by race)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab   \tab            Variable
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
You have an intense hatred of a particular race. When sighting an creature of that race nearby you must pass a Will - 1 roll or be forced to attack the foe immediately. You will not leave combat until either you or your foe is dead. During combat you temp
orarily have a strength one higher than your current strength. However, due to your blind fury you have trouble aiming your blows or missiles properly; subtract one from the appropriate skill. If you are
 reduced to less than half your hit points then you may make another Will roll at +1 in order to regain control of your senses. A -5 disadvantage should taken for a race that you will meet very rarely or for race that is not very deadly. A -30 disadvantag
e is for a race that you will meet frequently or a very deadly race that you might only meet once (like Greater Daemons!). 
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Increased Fatigue Points\tab \tab \tab           3 points/Fatigue point
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 You have more stamina than a normal person with your HT. Fatigue points a
re initially equal to ST, so a character with ST 11 could buy his fatigue point total up to 13. This would be written as ST 11/13.  Contests of ST and anything else involving tests of strength would still be made against a strength of 11. Only fatigue is 
subtracted from 13. You may only buy 4 extra fatigue points.
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Increased Hit Points\tab \tab \tab \tab                     5 points/Hit point
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 You can take more damage than a normal person with your HT. Hit points are initially equal to HT, so a character with HT 11 could buy
 his hit point total up to 13 or even 16. This would be written as HT 11/16.  Contests of HT, resistance\rquote 
s, calculation of unconsciousness and survival rolls, and anything else involving HT would still be made against health of 11. Only damage is subtracted from 16. You may only buy 5 extra hit points.
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Mutation - Minor\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab           -20 points
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 You have a minor mutation. This doesn\rquote t affect your life much except if certain authorities (or just common people) knew of your condition then you might be killed o
ut of hand or be forced into exile. The mutation will usually be easy enough to hide but you must be careful when bathing or being searched.
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Mutation - Major\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab           -50 points
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 You have a major mutation and it can\rquote 
t be hidden. It is impossible for you to lead a normal life. You are forced to skulk from farm to farm stealing food and running from Witch-hunters. It takes all your will not to devolve into a slobbering monster which
 feeds on anything, even human flesh. Every month of play you should roll against your will. If you fail you must reduce your IQ by 1.
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Reduced Fatigue Points\tab \tab \tab           -3 points/Fatigue point
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
You have less stamina than a normal person with your HT. Fatigue points are initially equal to ST, so a character with ST 11 could reduce his fatigue point total to 9. This would be written as ST 11/9.  Contests of ST and anything else involving tests of 
strength would still be made against a strength of 11. Only fatigue is subtracted from 9. You may only reduce fatigue points by 4.
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Reduced Hit Points \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab      -5 points/Hit point
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
You can take less damage than a normal person with your HT. Hit points are initially equal to HT, so a character with HT 10 could reduce his hit point total  to 8. This would be written as HT 10/8.  Contests of HT, resistance\rquote 
s, calculation of unconsciousness and survival rolls, and anything else involving HT would still be made against health of 10. Only damage is subtracted from 8. You may only reduce hit points by 5. 
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Reduced Move\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab                           -5 Points
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 Your body frame is not designed for fast movement. Your Basic Speed is reduced by 1.
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Warp Resonance\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab           10 points
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
Your mind and body have an innate feel for fabric of the Warp. You feel or act no differently than anyone else like you but you will excel as a cleric or a wizard. Characters without this advantage can learn to cast or \lquote channel\rquote 
 spells but have a -2 penalty to any of their magical skills. Only humans and elves may take this advantage.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Restricted Advantages and Disadvantages
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar The following advantages and disadvantages are not used or are restricted in GURPS-Hammer:
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\b Magical Aptitude 1,2, and 3:} These are superseded by \lquote Warp Resonance\rquote  and the GURPS-Hammer magic system.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par {\b Magical Resistance:} Also superseded by the GURPS-Hammer magic system.
\par 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\b Blessed:} Too powerful and does not fit the \lquote look and feel\rquote  of the Warhammer World. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par {\b Destiny:} By and large replaced by the \lquote Fate\rquote  advantages.
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs40\lang2057\kerning28 \page 2. Skills
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 New Skills Specific to the Warhammer World
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar The following skills are specific to the 
Warhammer World and are converted for GURPS use. In Warhammer, possessing a skill usually means that a character can automatically succeed in tasks involving that skill. In this conversion the characters must roll against their skill to see if they can ta
ke advantage of their knowledge or abilities. The Channelling skill is completely new to Warhammer and GURPS. It is used by clerics and I believe it will be a more satisfactory way of handling divine magic. See the {\i Clerical Magicks}
 section for more details.
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Arcane Language (Mental/Hard)  \tab                                \tab No Default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 47).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Begging (Mental/Easy)  \tab                                  \tab \tab IQ - 4     
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 On a successful roll against this skill a character receives 3D6 pennies per hour. See Warhammer Rule Book (page 47).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Brewing (Mental/Average) \tab                                             \tab No Default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 47).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Bribery (Mental/Average)  \tab                                  \tab \tab IQ - 4
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 On a successful roll again
st this skill a character may bribe another character if the target character fails a will roll. The GM should apply modifiers where appropriate. See Warhammer Rule Book (page 47).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Cartography (Mental/Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 48).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Consume Alcohol  (Physical/Easy)\tab \tab \tab No Default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 Characters may test against their Consume Alcohol skill instead of HT in situations where excessive consumption of alcohol is involved.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar See Warhammer Rule Book (page 49).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Contortionist (Physical/ Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 49).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Cult Lore (Mental/ Easy)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
Cult Lore is the knowledge of a particular religious cult. This knowledge includes how cult members should behave, what rituals exist, and what the strictures are. At skill level 12 a character will know about all petty magic spells allowed by the cult
\rquote s deity. At skill level 13 a character will know about all level 1 spells allowed by the cult\rquote s deity. This continues up to level 16 where a character will know about all level 4 spells allowed by the cult\rquote s deity.
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Demon Lore (Mental/Very Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 49).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Divining (Mental/Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 50).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Dowsing (Mental/Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 50).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Fire Eating (Mental/Easy)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 51).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Guild Knowledge  (By Type)  (Mental/Easy)\tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 This skill encompasses the knowledge of the customs and procedures of a particular Guild. Since Guilds (even of the same 
type) differ from town to town, this knowledge is usually very general. Characters with this skill will know what requirements must be met before a person may become a member of a Guild and how to go about plying their trade in other towns. Guild knowledg
e also encompasses the common business customs of that guild. Further information about the Guild may be known but only if the character rolls successfully against his or her skill level. Persons with 10 or less in this skill have a -1 penalty to their re
action roll when gaining employment. Persons with 14 or more have a +1 bonus to their reaction roll when gaining employment. 
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Herb Lore (Mental/Easy)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab IQ - 4
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 52).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Identify Magical Artifact (Mental/Very Hard)\tab        \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 52).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Identify Undead (Mental/Average)\tab \tab           \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 52).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Juggling (Physical/Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 50).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 {\lang1033 Language - Elth\'e1rin (Mental/Hard)\tab \tab \tab No default
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 {\lang1033 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 291). Characters must choose a dialect.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 {\lang1033 Language - Old Worlder (Mental/Average\tab \tab No default
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 {\lang1033 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 291). Characters must choose a dialect.
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 {\lang1033 Language - Khazalid (Mental/Average)\tab \tab \tab No default
\par }\pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 {\lang1033 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 291).
\par }\pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Magical Awareness (Mental/Easy)\tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 53). Note that this skill can only be taken by characters with the {\i Warp Resonance}
 advantage. Characters should roll against the skill level to see if they can detect any magical creatures, or individuals with the {\i Warp Resonance} advantage . It is impossible to detect non-magical creatures that don\rquote t have {\i Warp Resonance}
 unless they happen to be currently working magic. 
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Magical Sense (Mental/Hard)\tab \tab \tab        \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 53).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Manufacture Drugs (Mental/Hard) \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 53).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Manufacture Potions (Mental/Very Hard)\tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 53).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Manufacture Scrolls (Mental/Very Hard)\tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 53).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Mime (Physical/Easy)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab DX - 5
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 53).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Mimic (Physical/Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab DX - 5
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
See Warhammer Rule Book (page 53). Roll against skill to see if a character can mimic a voice. Impose penalties if the character has not heard the voice for a long time or has only heard the voice once or twice.
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Numismatics (Mental/Average)\tab \tab \tab \tab IQ - 4 
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 54).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Palmistry (Mental/Average)\tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 54).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 River Lore (Mental/Easy)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab No Default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 55). 
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Rune Lore (Mental/Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 55).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Rune Mastery (Mental/Very Hard)\tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 55).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Scroll Lore (Mental/Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 55).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Secret Language (by type) (Mental/Average) \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 55).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Secret Signs (by type) (Mental/Easy)\tab \tab \tab No default
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 56).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Stone-working (by type) (Mental/Average) \tab \tab Engineer - 4
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 57).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Tailor (by type) (Physical/Average) \tab \tab \tab DX - 4
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 58).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Trick Riding (Physical/Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab Riding-8
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 58).
\par \pard\plain \s19\li567\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs20\lang2057\kerning28 Ventriloquism (Physical/Hard)\tab \tab \tab \tab DX - 5
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 See Warhammer Rule Book (page 58).
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs40\lang2057\kerning28 \page 3. Race Packages
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Humans
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par Humans start with the following advantages, disadvantages and skills:
\par \pard \s17\qj\fi153\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 
\cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx8080 \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Description\cell }\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Points\cell }\pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Comments\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Fate, +3\tab \tab \cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 30\cell 
\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 
\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Language - Old Worlder\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 0\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 \cellx3828\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 \cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 \cellx8080 \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Total\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 30\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 {\f43 \row }\pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar
\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Wood Elves
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par Wood Elves start with the following advantages, disadvantages and skills:
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 
\cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx8080 \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Description\cell }\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Points\cell }\pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Comments\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 {\b\fs22 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Acute Vision, +2\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 4\cell 
\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Alertness, +2\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 10\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Appearance - Attractive\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 5\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Fate, +1\tab \tab \cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 10\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional (+1 Max)\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Infravision\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 15\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
Mandatory\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Honesty\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -10\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Intolerant of Dwarves\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -5\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Laziness\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -10\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Reduced Hit Points, -1\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -5\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Bow\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 4\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 
Language - Old Worlder\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 1\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 
Language - Elth\'e1rin\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 0\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 
\pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Survival - Forest\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 1\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 ST - 1, DX + 1, IQ + 1\cell 
\pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 10\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 \cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 
\cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Total\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 30\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Dwarves
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par Dwarves start with the following advantages, disadvantages and skills:
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 
\cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx8080 \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Description\cell }\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Points\cell }\pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Comments\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Fate, +2\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 20\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional (+2 Max)\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Increased Hit Points, +1\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 5\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Infravision\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 15\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory
\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Strong Will, +2\tab \tab \cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 8\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Appearance - Unattractive\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -5
\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Bad Temper\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -10\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Dislikes Open Areas\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -1\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Hatred of Goblinoids\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -10\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Intolerant of Elves\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -5\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Reduced Movement, -1\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -5\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row 
\pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Blacksmith,\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 4\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Language - Old Worlder\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 1\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Language - Dwarven\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 0\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Mining\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 2\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 ST + 1, DX -1, HT + 1\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 10\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 \cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Total\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 30\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Halflings
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par Halflings start with the following advantages, disadvantages and skills:
\par 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 
\cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx8080 \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Description\cell }\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Points\cell }\pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 Comments\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Fate, +3\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 30\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Infravision\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 15\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory
\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Gluttony\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -5\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Prefers to go Barefoot\tab \cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -1\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 
\row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Reduced Hit Points, -2\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -10\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Reduced Movement, -1\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -5\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
Mandatory\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Cooking\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 1\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Language - Old Worlder\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 0\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Mandatory\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 ST -2, DX +2\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 5\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Optional\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 
\row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 \cellx3828\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 
\cellx5245\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \clshdng500 \cellx8080 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Total\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 30\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s16\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs40\lang2057\kerning28 \page 
4. Generating GURPS Characters For The Warhammer World
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Starting Characters
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
GURPS characters equivalent to Warhammer basic characters are worth around 60 to 80 points. This includes any points associated with playing a particular race. The GM should decide exactly how many character points are available for any particular campaig
n. 
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 How Guilds and Careers Affect Character Creation
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar In the Warhammer world Guilds are very prominent. This makes it very difficult for characters to become trained in a very wide variety of skills or even trained extensively in a 
very small range of skills. Almost all training you receive will come from your parents or from some sort of apprenticeship. While it is possible to learn skills not taught in your characters profession, it is difficult unless you have the luxury of payin
g for your tuition. Gaining employment in a field is also difficult if you don\rquote t have all the prerequisite  skills. Not because you don\rquote t have the skills to do the job but because the Guild concerned won\rquote 
t let you practice until you hold some sort of certificate of proficiency. To gain the certificate you will need to meet all the skill requirements of the Guild. For example, if Clem Shirestock has the {\i Carpentry}
 skill then he will not be able to work as a Carpenter until he has joined a Guild and learnt all the skills that Carpenters must know (even though he could conceivably get by with just the {\i Carpentry} skill). 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar So how does this affect how you create characters? Well, firstly, you need to select a career or profession. There is a list in the Warhammer Ru
le book but these are by no means exhaustive.  Feel free to ask the GM about possible new careers. Each career will contain a list of skills required. Your character should have all of those skills to at least level 12 (for initial careers). Apart from th
ese restrictions you may spend points as you wish. If you have enough points you can create a character with two or more careers or professions. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Characters must have at least one career because if they don\rquote t then gaining work becomes very difficult. Guild
s have enough power to make life difficult for individuals who persist in plying their trade without permission. Characters that have a career or profession will usually have some way of proving they belong to a guild. These usually come in the form of re
ferences given to them after completing an apprenticeship. The Guild Knowledge skill should be taken by all characters who are members of a Guild. This skill improves a character\rquote 
s chances of gaining employment. For some Guilds (e.g. the Thieves Guild) the ownership of this knowledge is the only way to tell if a person is a member or not. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
Remember that your career must match any advantages or disadvantages your character has. Your average beggar is unlikely to have any status advantages at all. Gaining skills after your character is created may also prove difficult depending on what skills
 you wish to learn. Teaching yourself is always possible but in some cases the knowledge you want to learn is jealously guarded by a Guild. Guilds try to maintain their mo
nopoly on their particular craft so they are unlikely to teach anyone but loyal Guild members. If you want to learn particular skills later on then be aware that the knowledge may be hard to come by (especially if you can make money from it!).
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar You can create a character without a career if you wish. However, you must also take the{\i  Poor: Struggling}
 disadvantage since your character finds work hard to find even if you are highly skilled (employers hiring non-Guild workers are subject to reprisals from the Guild). 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
There are some careers which are not governed by Guilds but these are few and tend to be careers where characters work for themselves. Skill sets for these types of characters are largely based on common sense. However, your character must be able to earn
 at least the average wage or the GM will force you to take the{\i  Poor: Struggling} disadvantage. Skill sets for common self employed careers can be found in the Warhammer rule book. 
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Other Restrictions
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Since Warhammer characters are all assumed to have basic weapon skills we need to translate this through for GURPS-Hammer. These guidelines should be followed when creating characters:
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ulth\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}
Warrior type characters should know at least 2 hand weapon skills, and at least 1 ranged weapon skill (e.g. {\i Bow}). They are likely to have the {\i Shield} skill.
\par {\pntext\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ulth\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ulth\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}Ranger type characters should know at least {\i Bow} and one hand-weapon skill.
\par {\pntext\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ulth\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ulth\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}Rogue type characters should know at least the {\i Knife} and {\i Stealth} skills. 
\par {\pntext\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlcont\ulth\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ulth\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}Academic type characters will most likely be literate.
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Looking Forward
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Your character\rquote 
s initial career is usually not glamorous but it does gives your character some skills that may be useful. It is assumed that your character has become fed-up or bored with their ordinary life and seeks excitement and fortune by travelling,
 seeking treasure, causing trouble, and finding trouble. The experience gained and the opportunities for training which become available will inevitably drive your characters development toward better careers. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Your character will probably never work
 in her old career unless she needs money between adventures. While adventuring she may come across opportunities to learn other more exciting careers. Your initial career does matter here. Very few wizards will take on an illiterate, ignorant, sub-10 IQ,
 warrior as an apprentice. Those who do will ask the warrior to pay (a lot) for wasting their time on someone who will make for a demanding student.  The reverse is true too. Which mercenary troop would take on and train an undeveloped weed who doesn
\rquote t know the first thing about swinging a sword?
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs40\lang2057\kerning28 \page 5. General Conversions
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar This section will mostly be of use to GMs only. Players may find it useful if their GM tells them to roll a {\i Cool} test and wonder why their character needs to impress a Greater Daemon.
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Characteristic Tests
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Characteristic Tests are those performed against a Warhammer characteristic. GMs should use these tests if no appropriate Standard Test available (see below). These aren\rquote 
t hard and fast and you may want to choose more appropriate tests in c
ertain situations. For example, in the Warhammer rules characters roll against Toughness (per dose) to resist the effects of poison. However, in GURPS this becomes an HT roll with a modifier.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri560\widctlpar\tqr\tx-2410\tqc\tx1985 {\b Weapon Skill:\tab }\tab Roll against the skill level of the weapon used
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\tqc\tx1985 {\b Ballistic Skill:}\tab \tab Roll against the skill level of the ranged weapon used
\par {\b Strength:} \tab \tab Roll against ST
\par {\b Toughness:} \tab \tab Roll against HT
\par {\b Initiative:\tab }\tab Sense Roll
\par {\b Dexterity:}\tab \tab Roll against DX
\par {\b Leadership:}\tab \tab Reaction Roll
\par {\b Intelligence:}\tab \tab Roll against IQ
\par {\b Cool:}\tab \tab Fright Check (no modifiers)
\par {\b Will Power:}\tab \tab Will Roll\tab 
\par {\b Fellowship:\tab }\tab Reaction Roll
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Standard Tests
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Standard Tests map to GURPS tests in a more consistent way. So you should use these tests where possible. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par {\b Animosity:\tab }Reaction Roll with -2 penalty.
\par {\b Bargain:\tab \tab }Reaction Roll
\par {\b Bluff:\tab \tab }Reaction Roll
\par {\b Bribe:\tab \tab }Perform Will Roll for the target
\par {\b Busk:\tab \tab }Reaction Roll
\par {\b Construct:\tab }The relevant skill or default
\par {\b Disease:\tab \tab }Roll against HT
\par {\b Employment:\tab }Reaction Roll
\par {\b Estimate:\tab }Roll against IQ
\par {\b Fear:\tab \tab }Fright Check with -1 penalty
\par {\b Frenzy:\tab \tab }See {\i Berserk} disadvantage
\par {\b Gamble:\tab \tab }Contest of Skills
\par {\b Gossip:\tab \tab }Reaction
\par {\b Hatred:\tab \tab }Will Roll
\par {\b Hide:\tab \tab }Stealth Test
\par {\b Interrogate:\tab }Victim performs Will Test
\par {\b Listen:\tab \tab }Sense Roll
\par {\b Loyalty:\tab \tab }Reaction Roll
\par {\b Magic:\tab \tab }Will Roll
\par {\b Observe:\tab }Sense Roll
\par {\b Pick Lock:\tab }Lock-picking Skill or default
\par {\b Pick Pocket:\tab }Pick-pocket Skill or default
\par {\b Poison:\tab \tab }Roll against HT (-1 Modifier should be average)
\par {\b Reaction:\tab }Sense Roll
\par {\b Risk:\tab \tab }Roll against 10 with any modifiers
\par {\b Search:\tab \tab }Sense Roll
\par {\b Sneak:\tab \tab }Stealth Test or default
\par {\b Stupidity:\tab }Roll against IQ
\par {\b Terror:\tab \tab }Fright Check with -2 penalty 
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Currency Conversions
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
This area is fraught with problems. The Warhammer world guide is pretty good and the availability rules are excellent but finding an easy currency conversion is difficult when armour costs more than a sword in Warhammer and a sword costs more than armour 
in GURPS. Using the relative costs of tavern meals a simple conversion metric we end up with a GURPS farthing being equal to a tenth of a Warhammer Gold Crown. Where possible use the prices (and weigh
ts) from the GURPS rule book (divide the price by 10 to determine how many Gold Crowns it will cost). Prices for items not mentioned in the GURPS rule book will not need to be corrected, just use them as is. The conversions are:
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\fi720\li720\ri567\widctlpar 10 Copper Farthings = 1 Gold Crown
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \tab \tab 1 Gold Crown = 20 Silver Shillings
\par \tab \tab 1 Silver Shilling = 12 Brass Pennies
\par 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Using the conversions above we can calculate that characters receive a starting wealth of 100 Gold Crowns.
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Character Conversions
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Use the following procedure as a basis for converting WFRP characters into GURPS characters:
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 1.\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\ulth\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}Use the general character description to determine any advantages and disadvantages.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 2.\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\ulth\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}Determine ST from the S characteristic (use S&T Conversion Chart).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 3.\tab}Determine HT from the T characteristic (use S&T Conversion Chart).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 4.\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\ulth\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}Determine DX from the Dex characteristic (use Percentage Conversion Chart).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 5.\tab}Determine IQ from the Int characteristic (use Percentage Conversion Chart).
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 6.\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\ulth\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}Move Factor = (DX+HT)/4.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 7.\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\ulth\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}Determine characters preferred hand-to-hand weapon and add ski
ll up to level based on WS (use Percentage Conversion Chart). For each attack (A) that the character has add +3 to the weapon\rquote s skill level. Add skills for any other weapons that the characters uses.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 8.\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\ulth\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
Determine characters preferred ranged weapon and add skill up to level based on BS (use percentage conversion chart). If the character has the {\i Marksmanship} skill then add +3 to the weapon\rquote s skill level.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 9.\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\ulth\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}For each skill the character has, select an appropriate GURPS skill. Basic characters should have these skill
s to level 12. Advanced characters should have these skills to level 14. The skill conversion chart is used as a basis for skill conversion.
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft2127 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx4678\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx7230 \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 WFRP Percentage }
{\cs15\v\f4\fs16 {\*\atnid RK}{\*\atnauthor Roger Kay}\chatn {\*\annotation \pard\plain \s21\widctlpar \f4\fs20\lang2057 {\field{\*\fldinst PAGE \\# "'Page: '#'\line '"{\cs15\fs16   }}{\fldrslt }}{\cs15\fs16 \chatn }}}{\b\fs22 Characteristic\cell }\pard 
\s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 GURPS Skill or Attribute Level\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft2127 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 
\cellx4678\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7230 \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 100\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 17\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft2127 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4678\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7230 \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 90\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 16\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 80
\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 15\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 70\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 14\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 60\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 13\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 50
\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 12\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 40\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 11\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 30\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 10\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 20
\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 9\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft2127 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4678\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7230 \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 10\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 8\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row 
\pard\plain \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s22\qc\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \b\f4\fs20\lang2057 Table {\field{\*\fldinst  SEQ Table \\* ARABIC }{\fldrslt {\lang1024 1}}} - Percentage Conversion Chart
\par \pard\plain \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft2127 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx4678\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw45 \clshdng10000 \cellx7230 \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {
\b\fs22 WFRP S or T Characteristic\cell }\pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22 GURPS ST or HT Characteristic\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft2127 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4678\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw45 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7230 \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 10\cell \pard 
\s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 30\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft2127 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4678\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7230 \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 9\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 25\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 8\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 21\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 7\cell \pard 
\s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 18\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 6\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 15\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row 
\pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 5\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 13\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 4\cell \pard 
\s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 11\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 3\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 10\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row 
\pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 2\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 9\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft2127 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx4678\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15 \cellx7230 \pard\plain \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 1\cell \pard \s17\qc\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
8\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s22\qc\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \b\f4\fs20\lang2057 Table {\field{\*\fldinst  SEQ Table \\* ARABIC }{\fldrslt {\lang1024 2}}} - S&T Conversion Chart\page 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clcfpat1\clcbpat8\clshdng10000 \cellx4075\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clcfpat1\clcbpat8\clshdng10000 \cellx8222 \pard\plain 
\s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 {\b\fs22\cf8 Warhammer Skill\cell }\pard \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\fs22\cf8 GURPS Equivalent(s)\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 {\b\cf8 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4075\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8222 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Acrobatics \cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Acrobatics\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4075\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8222 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Acting\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Acting\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Acute Hearing\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
Acute Hearing advantage\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Ambidextrous\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Ambidextrous advantage\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Animal Care\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Animal Handling\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Animal Training\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Animal Handling, Falconry, Teamster\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Arcane Language\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Art\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Artist\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Astronomy\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Astronomy\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 
Begging\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Blather\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Fast-Talk\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Brewing \cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Boat Building\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Shipbuilding\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Carpentry\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Carpentry\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Cartography\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Charm\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Charisma  advantage (+1)\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Charm Animal\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Animal Empathy\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Chemistry\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
Chemistry\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Clown\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Acting, Acrobatics, Performance\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 
\row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Comedian\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Performance, Acting\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 
Concealment (Urban/Rural)\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Camouflage\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Consume Alcohol\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i 
New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Contortionist\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row 
\pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Cook\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Cooking\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Cryptography\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Crypt-analysis\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Cure Disease\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Physician, Diagnose\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Dance\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Dancing\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Demon Lore\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Disarm\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Ignored}
\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Disguise\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Disguise\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Divining\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Dodge Blow\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Not Required - increase DX instead\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Dowsing\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell 
}\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Drive Cart\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Drive (cart){\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Embezzling\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Ignored}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Engineer\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Engineer, Mathematics{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Escapology\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Escape\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Etiquette\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Savoir-Faire\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Evaluate\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Merchant\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Excellent Vision\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
Acute Vision advantage\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Fire Eating\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 
\row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Fish\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Fishing{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Flee!\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Running\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Fleet Footed\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Running\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Follow Trail\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Tracking{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Frenzied Attack\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Frenzy disadvantage\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Gamble\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
Gambling\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Game Hunting\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Tracking, Stealth\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row 
\pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Gem Cutting\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Jeweler\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Haggle\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Merchant\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Heal Wounds\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl First Aid, Physician\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Heraldry\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Heraldry\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Herb Lore\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 History\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl History{\i 
\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Hypnotise\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Hypnotism\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Identify Magical Artifact\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Identify Plant
\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Naturalist\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Identify Undead\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Immunity to Disease\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Immunity to Disease advantage{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row 
\pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Immunity to Poison\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Ignore - increase HT instead}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Jest\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Performance, Acting{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Juggle\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i 
New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Law\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Law{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Lightning Reflexes\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Combat Reflexes advantage\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Linguistics
\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Linguistics\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Lip Reading\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Lip Reading\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Luck\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Luck advantage\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Magical Awareness\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Magical Sense\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Manufacture Drugs\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Manufacture Potions\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Manufacture Scrolls\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Marksmanship\cell 
\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Ignored - increase Bow/Gun skill instead\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Meditation\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Ignored
\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Metallurgy\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Metallurgy\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Mime\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Mimic\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Mining\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Geology, Engineer (mining){\i \cell }\pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Musicianship\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Musical Ability advantage\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Night Vision\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Infravision advantage (non-humans only)\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 
Numismatics\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Orientation\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Absolute Direction{\i 
\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Palmistry\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Palm Object\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Sleight of Hand{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Pick Lock\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Lock-picking\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Pick Pocket \cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Pickpocket\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Prepare Poisons\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Poisons\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Public Speaking\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Bard, Performance\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Read/Write\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
Literacy\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Ride (by type)\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Riding (by type)\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row 
\pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 River Lore \cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Row\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Boating{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Rune Lore\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Rune Mastery\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Sailing\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Boating, Seamanship\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Scale Sheer Surface\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Climbing{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Scroll Lore\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Secret Language (type)\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Secret Signs\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Seduction\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
Sex Appeal{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Set Trap\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Traps\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Shadowing\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Shadowing\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Silent Move (Rural/Urban)\cell 
\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Stealth\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Sing\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Singing\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Sixth Sense\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Danger Sense advantage\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Smithing\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Blacksmith\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Speak Additional Language\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Language (by type)\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Specialist Weapon - type\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Relevant weapon skill}
\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Spot Trap\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Traps{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Stone-working\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Story Telling\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Bard{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Street Fighter\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Brawling or Karate\cell \pard\plain 
\widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Strike Mighty Blow\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Ignored - increase ST instead}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row 
\pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Strike to Injure\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Ignored - increase weapon skill instead\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Strike to Stun\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Ignored - increase weapon skill instead\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Strongman\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Ignored - increase ST and HT\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Super-numerate\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Lightning Calculator{\i 
\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Surgery\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Surgery\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Swim\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Swimming\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Tailor\cell \pard 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Theology\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Theology{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Torture\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Interrogation\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Trick Riding\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i New Skill}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Ventriloquism\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {
\i New Skill\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Very Resilient\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Toughness DR1 advantage{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl 
\f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Very Strong\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\i Ignored - increase ST instead}\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain 
\s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Wit\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Carousing{\i \cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4075\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8222 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 
\f43\fs20\lang2057 Wrestling\cell \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl Wrestling\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s22\qc\sb120\sa120\widctlpar \b\f4\fs20\lang2057 \tab Table {\field{\*\fldinst  SEQ Table \\* ARABIC 
}{\fldrslt {\lang1024 3}}} - Skill Conversion Chart
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs40\lang2057\kerning28 \page 6. Sorcerous Magicks
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar GURPS-Hammer uses a variant of the GURPS magic system. The basic GURPS magic system makes it too easy to learn and use magic. I haven\rquote 
t re-used the entire of the Warhammer magic system either. It has some problems which are easily fixed using the GURPS game mechanics. So the result is a combination with a few new bits added by myself.
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Magic in the Warhammer World
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar In GURPS terminology the Warhammer world is a \lquote no-mana\rquote  world. However, magical effects are possible because of the presen
ce of the  uncontrolled warp gates at the poles of the planet. The warp is the instrument for effecting magic. Magical characters transported away from the Warhammer planet will find that they cannot cast magic at all. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Given enough training and time anyone can learn to cast spells. However, unless the character has an innate \lquote sense\rquote  of the warp such castings are low powered and modest. This innate \lquote sense\rquote 
 is called Warp Resonance. A character with this advantage can eventually cast very powerful spells. For reasons unknown, Dwarves and Halflings have never been known to have any kind of Warp Resonance.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
Sorcerors or wizards need two types of skills in orders to cast spells. Firstly they need to know at least one type of casting lore. Casting lore is knowledge used to put spells into effect. Secondly, they will need to know at least one spell.
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Casting Lore
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Casting lore is the name for a skill that must be learnt in order to cast spells. The type of casting lore employed when casting a spell usually affects 
the time to cast and the energy cost of such spells. Experienced wizards will know several types of casting lore and can cast spells at a fraction of the cost of an apprentice. The least experienced wizards will typically know only one or two types of cas
ting lore.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
In the Empire, the teaching of casting lore is restricted by the Guild of Sorcerous Magicks. Students of magick will only be taught new and more powerful casting lore when they can prove their mastery of the lore they already know. This is not j
ust a guild mechanism for monopolising magical knowledge either. Mastery of a greater casting lore often requires mastery of all elements of a lesser casting lore.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
The type of casting known by a wizard affects the speed, cost and difficulty of casting spells. The highest known casting lore is 12 times as efficient as the lowest casting lore but it makes spells more difficult to cast.
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Spells
\par \pard\plain \widctlpar \f4\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 A spell is a sequence of actions that cause a magical effect. Spells have the following attributes:
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar  
\par {\b Description: }What the spell does and how it affects the world.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\b Range:} The optimal range for the spell. Casting the spell at targets beyond the range will increase the cost of the spell dramatically.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\b Difficulty: }A modifier to the casters skill in the spell.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\b Casting Cost: }The base energy cost of the spell in fatigue or health points. Spells are \lquote powered\rquote 
 by the casters own strength. If the cost of the spell is 1 then the caster will have to expend 1 fatigue or health point to power the spell.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\b Casting Time: }How long the spell takes to cast.
\par {\b Duration: }How long the spell effects last.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\b Maintenance Cost: }The energy cost to extend the spell past it\rquote s given duration. Some spells cannot be extended.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
Spells are treated as a regular skill. Each spell a character has learned will have an associated skill level. This is the base spell level. When the spell is cast this skill will be modified depending on the spell and the casting lore used. The teaching 
of spells is not as closely guarded as the teaching of Casting Lore. This is mainly
 because the most powerful spells require more power than lower Casting Lore can provide. There have been reports of curious apprentices successfully casting spells meant for Higher Casting Lore and almost killing themselves in the process.{\f16 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Casting Spells
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
When casting a spell a character must specify the spell to cast, the casting lore to be employed, and the target of the spell. The caster should then determine how long the spell will take to cast, the difficulty level, and the energy cost. The character 
must then concentrate for the required casting time. After the required period the energy points are removed and a single roll performed to see if the spell was performed successfully. This roll is made against the casters modified skill level for the spe
ll cast. The modified skill level can never be higher than the characters skill level for the casting lore used. Normal failures do nothing but the energy for the spell is still used. Critical failures cause double the energy to be spent. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li1134\ri1134\widctlpar {\f5\fs16 Example: Clem ShireStock, a Wizard\rquote s Apprentice, is about to cast the }{\i\f5\fs16 Open }{\f5\fs16 spell. The base casting time is 1 second and the base casting cost is 1. He knows the }{\i\f5\fs16 
Open}{\f5\fs16  spell to level 14 and knows }{\i\f5\fs16 Apprentice Casting Lore }{\f5\fs16 to level 12. }{\i\f5\fs16 Apprentice Casting Lore}{\f5\fs16 
 triples the time and cost of the spell so Clem must spend six seconds concentrating. At the end of 6 seconds he spends 6 points of fatigue and rolls against his modified skill level. His skill level in the spell is 14 and he gets a +1 bonus but he only k
nows his casting lore to level 12. So he must roll against 12 for successful casting of the spell.
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li1134\ri1134\widctlpar {\f5\fs16 
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
Casters may extend the range of a spell in the following way. To increase the range by 50% the base spell cost is increased by 1 point. Therefore, to double the range costs 2 points extra. Tripling the range costs 4 points extra on so on. This cost is inc
urred before calculating the multiplier for the casting lore used. If a caster unknowingly chooses a target outside the spell range they may use more energy than expected.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Casters can call on fatigue or hits to power spells. However, when hits are used there is a penalty to casting equal to the number of hits about to be taken.  
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar When a spell is successfully cast it occurs as the very first event in the casters next turn. For example, a 3 seconds spell cast during turns 1,2, and 3 will take effect at the very start of turn 4.
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Distraction and Injury
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar If the caster is hurt, knocked down, forced to use an active defence, or otherwise distracted while concentrating, he must make a 
(Will - 3) roll to maintain his casting. A failed roll means he must start over. If he is injured while concentrating then the effective skill level for the spell is reduced by the amount of hits he suffered.{\b 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Casting Lore Details
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par The various known types of casting lore are described below:{\b 
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\b 
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading10000 {\b\fs24 Apprentice Casting Lore}{\b 
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
Apprentice Casting Lore is usually taught to apprentices after around a year of service to his/her Wizard. Apprentice Casting Lore is typically quite clumsy but relatively easy to learn and gives
 an apprentice a solid grounding in the magical arts. Using this casting lore spells take three times as long to cast and require three times as much energy to cast. Apprentice Lore does not allow a caster to draw upon health to power spells. The advantag
e of such inefficiency is that the effective skill level of spells cast using this lore is increased by 1.
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Casting Time x 3
\par Casting Cost x 3
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Effective Spell Skill +1
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par 
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading10000 {\b\fs24 Novice Casting Lore
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 Novice Casting Lore is usually taught to apprentices in their final s
tage of apprenticeship. Once learnt, the apprentice is treated as a Wizard in his or her own right. Casters must know Apprentice Casting Lore to level 14 before learning Novice Casting Lore.
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Casting Time x 2
\par Casting Cost x 2
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Effective Spell Skill +0
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \page 
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading10000 {\b\fs24 Common Casting Lore
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
The average wizard will know Common Casting Lore. It is probably the most frequently used lore when the caster is not rushed. Casters must know Novice Casting Lore to level 14 before learning Common Casting Lore.
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Casting Time x 1
\par Casting Cost x 1
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Effective Spell Skill +0
\par }\pard \s17\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\b\fs24 
\par 
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading10000 {\b\fs24 Higher Casting Lore}{\b 
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 Few wizards ever learn Higher Casting Lore. Most can get by fine with Common Casting Lore. Casters must know Common Casting Lore to level 14 before learning Higher Casting Lore.
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Casting Time / 2
\par Casting Cost / 2
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Effective Spell Skill -1
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par 
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading10000 {\b\fs24 Master Casting Lore}{\b 
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
Perhaps one or two wizards in a large city have learnt Master Casting Lore. These persons are the elite of the magic user community. They can safely attempt very difficult spells. Casters must know 
Higher Casting Lore to level 14 before learning Master Casting Lore. 
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Casting Time / 4
\par Casting Cost / 4
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Effective Spell Skill -1
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar \f4\fs20\lang2057 
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading10000 \f43\fs20\lang2057 {\b\fs24 Battle Casting Lore
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
War Wizards are trained in this casting lore after being admitted to the Imperial Institute of Battle Magicks in Nuln. It focuses on the ability to move while casting and the reduction of casting time. While employing this casting lore a wizard may move u
p to 2 hexes per turn in any direction at a -2 penalty to the effective spell skill. Since this lore makes
 spells more difficult to cast, War Wizards tend to learn a limited number of spells to a high skill level to improve spell reliability. Casters must learn Novice Casting Lore before learning Battle Casting Lore.
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Casting Time / 2
\par Casting Cost x 2
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Effective Spell Skill +0 (-2 if moving up to 2 hexes per second)
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\f5\fs24 
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar {\f5\fs24 \page 
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading10000 {\b\fs24 Combined Casting Lore}
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 
This casting lore is used to perform magic rituals with one or more spell-casters. This allows high cost spells that could not be cast by one person to be cast by several cast
ers all pooling energy. Spells are cast as normal but the base skill level is that of the least skilled in the group. Combined Casting Lore increases the time taken to cast spells. Casters learning Combined Casting Lore must know Common Casting Lore to le
vel 14.
\par \pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Casting Time x 10
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Casting Cost x 1
\par }\pard \s17\qc\li567\ri567\widctlpar\box\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \shading500 {\f5\fs24 Effective Spell Skill = lowest spell skill level of all participants + 2
\par }\pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 
\par \pard \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 Conversion Of Warhammer Spells
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar This section describes how the spells in the Warhammer rule book should be modified to work with GURPS-Hammer. There are some general rules that should be followed:
\par \pard\plain \s20\li397\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar \scaps\f43\fs22\lang2057\kerning28 General Spell Conversions
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 1. \tab}\pard\plain \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}\f43\fs20\lang2057 
All Warhammer spells are considered to be Mental/Hard skills. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 2. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}
The spell difficulty can be determined by the spell level. Petty magic spells always have a difficulty of 0. Level 1 spells have difficulty of -1 and so on to level 4 spells which have a difficulty of -4.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 3. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}The range remains the same.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 4. \tab}The cost in MP becomes the base energy cost.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 5. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}
Ingredients are optional in GURPS-Hammer. The uncertain nature of casting makes up for not having to procure spell components.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 6. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}
Casting time should be determined by the spell level. Petty magic spells have a casting time of 2 seconds. Level 1 spells have a casting time of 4 seconds. Level 2 spells have a casting time of 6 seconds. Level 3 spells have a casting time of 8 seconds. L
evel 4 spells have a casting time of 10 seconds.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 7. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}
A duration of a round should be treated as 5 seconds. Durations of a turn should be treated as 30 seconds.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 8. \tab}The level of the caster does not exist in the GURPS-Hammer magic system. For conversions always assume that the level is 1.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 9. \tab}Disabilities for Necromancers and Demonologists are to be taken as disadvantages. 
\par \pard\plain \s20\li397\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar \scaps\f43\fs22\lang2057\kerning28 Petty Magic Spell Conversions
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 1. Reinforce door increases DR of door by 1 up to a maximum of +3. 
\par \pard\plain \s20\li397\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar \scaps\f43\fs22\lang2057\kerning28 Battle Magic Spell Conversions
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 1. \tab}\pard\plain \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}\f43\fs20\lang2057 
Fireballs always hit and do 2d damage. Successfully dodging or blocking a fireball reduces damage to 1d.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 2. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}
Lightning Bolts do 2d damage. Due to the instantaneous nature of the lightning bolt the target may only block a lightning bolt at a -2 penalty. A successful block reduces damage to 1d.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 3. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}
You can only fire one fireball or lightning bolt at one time. The most powerful wizards will be able to fire off 4 fireballs every 4 seconds.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 4. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}The smash spell does 3d crushing damage.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 5. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}The Blast spell is similar to the Fireball spell except that it does 4d damage.

\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 6. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}Aura of Resistance increases DR by 1.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 7. \tab}Aura of Protection increases DR by 2.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 8. \tab}Aura of Invulnerability nullifies next 3D6 hits inflicted on the caster.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 9. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}Animated Sword has the following profile: Broads
word-18, ST 11, DX 16, HT 10/8, Move 6. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 10. \tab}The Hammerhand spell increases strength by 2 and gives a +1 bonus to all hand-to-hand attacks. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 11. \tab}Cure Light Injury restores D6 hits to characters with 1 or more hits. Characters with less than 1 hit cannot be healed with this spell.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 12. \tab}Characters in a Zone of Steadfastness increase DR by 1 and have +1 bonus to all active defenses.
\par \pard\plain \s20\li397\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar \scaps\f43\fs22\lang2057\kerning28 Demonologist Spell Conversions
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 1. \tab}\pard\plain \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}\f43\fs20\lang2057 
The Summon Energy spell will allow the caster to regain 10 fatigue points immediately. However, further fatigue points cannot be regained until the spell is dispelled.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 2. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}Summon Great Power increases all of the caster\rquote 
s attributes by +1 (-1 if he fails the Will Roll). 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 3. \tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}Summon Total Power increases all of the caster\rquote 
s attributes by +2 (-2 if she fails the Will Roll). In addition, the caster temporarily gains 10 additional fatigue points (which may exceed the normal maximum). The spell cannot be cast again for two weeks. 
After the spell is cast, roll on the fright check table with a +5 penalty (as if a fright check was failed by 5).
\par \pard\plain \s20\li397\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar \scaps\f43\fs22\lang2057\kerning28 Elementalist Spell Conversions
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 1. \tab}\pard\plain \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}\f43\fs20\lang2057 Assault of Stones does 2d crushing damage.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 2. \tab}Hand of Fire causes weapon damage to be increased by +1.
\par \pard\plain \s20\li397\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar \scaps\f43\fs22\lang2057\kerning28 Illusionist Spell Conversions
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 1. Characters can see though illusions on a successful test against IQ-3.
\par \pard\plain \s20\li397\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar \scaps\f43\fs22\lang2057\kerning28 Necromantic Spell Conversions
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 1. \tab}\pard\plain \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnb0\pni0\ulth\pnf43\pnfs20\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta . }}\f43\fs20\lang2057 Hand of Death does 1d+1 hits with every touch. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 2. \tab}Hand of Dust does 2d+2 hits with every touch.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f43\fs20 3. \tab}Wind of Death does 2d+2 hits to every living thing within range.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 \page New Spells
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar In addition to the spells in the Warhammer rule book there are the following new spells:
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \shading10000 {\b\fs24 Dispel
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 {\b College: }Battle Magic{\b 
\par }\pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 {\b Description:}
 Cancels the effects of a spell cast by another spellcaster. The other spellcaster cannot resist the dispelling. This spell may be attempted by any caster against any spell. However, apprentices will be unlikely to dispel spells cast by experienced wizard
s.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 {\b Casting Cost:} The base cost of the spell to dispel.
\par {\b Range:} 48 yards
\par {\b Difficulty:} The difficulty of the spell to dispel.
\par {\b Duration:} Instantaneous
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brsp20 \brdrb\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrr\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 {\b Casting Time:} 2 seconds
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par 
\par \pard\plain \s16\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrt\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \brdrl\brdrs\brdrw45\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs40\lang2057\kerning28 \page 7. Clerical Magicks
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar GURPS-Hammer uses a completely new (and untried) system for clerical magic. It is based on the assumption that clerics never have any knowledge about casting spells. They just know how to call for their deity\rquote 
s aid and how to make it easier for the deity to provide the aid.
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Clerics and Deities
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Technically, clerics don\rquote t cast spells. They ask their deity to cast the spell through them. The cleric provides a \lquote conduit\rquote 
 and also provides the energy for the spell. Deities can effect magical spells from t
heir plane of existence without the help of a cleric, it just happens to be very expensive for them to do so. Using a cleric to perform minor castings (by deitific standards) is a much easier way to exert control on the physical world. The relationship be
tween cleric and deity is symbiotic. The cleric providing the deity with influence in human affairs and the deity providing the cleric with magical power in the same league as wizards.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Compared with sorcerous magic, clerical magic is just as powerful but always requires more time to bring into being. The increased time is due to the time it takes the cleric to establish a \lquote channel\rquote 
 and to ask the deity to work a particular spell through them. The only advantage that clerics have over the practitioners of s
orcerous magic is that they will frequently have considerably more spells available to them. The only restrictions that clerics have on the spells available to them are only those imposed by the deity (who can be assumed to know all spells - and then some
).
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar The most important aspects of clerical magic are Channelling and Invocation. Channelling is a skill required to act as a conduit for a deities spell. Invocation is the act of requesting the deity to perform the spell. 

\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Channelling
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Channelling is the discipline of providing an energy source and focus for the magical activities of a Warp Entity, usually a deity. It is channelling that allows a cleric to \lquote cast\rquote 
 spells. The cleric will usually \lquote open\rquote  a channel then ask or will his or her deity to work a spell through them. The energy for the casting is provided by the channeller. This skill can only be gained by a character with the \lquote 
Warp Resonance\rquote  advantage. A channel has an associated energy capacity. The energy capacity is a measure of the maximum amount
 of energy (fatigue or hits) can be used by a Warp Entity for working magic. Once a channel is open any number of spells can be cast through it until the channel is closed. However,  the channel can only support a single spell at a time and the cost of th
e spell must be less than or equal to the channel capacity. Clerics refer the capacity of the channel as the channel\rquote s \lquote width\rquote . 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
The Channelling discipline is divided into three skill levels; Basic, Intermediate, Advanced. The level used determines how long a channel takes to open and how difficult it is to open. The table below describes the difference between Channelling types:

\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clcfpat1\clcbpat8\clshdng10000 \cellx2694\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clcfpat1\clcbpat8\clshdng10000 \cellx4395\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\clcfpat1\clcbpat8\clshdng10000 \cellx6521\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clcfpat1\clcbpat8\clshdng10000 \cellx8505 \pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\cf8 Description\cell }\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\cf8 Basic
\cell }\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b Intermediate}{\b\cf8 \cell }\pard \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl {\b\cf8 Advanced\cell }\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 {\b\cf8 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx2694\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4395\clbrdrt
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6521\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 
\cellx8505 \pard\plain \s17\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Time to open channel\cell \pard \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl width x 3\cell \pard \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl width x 2\cell \pard \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl width x 1\cell 
\pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Cost modifier\cell \pard \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl cost x 2\cell \pard \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl cost x 1\cell \pard 
\s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl cost / 2\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \trowd \trgaph108\trleft567 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 
\cellx2694\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx4395\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr
\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \cellx6521\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw15\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw30\brdrcf1 \cellx8505 \pard\plain \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl \f43\fs20\lang2057 Difficulty Modifier\cell 
\pard \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl 0\cell \pard \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -1\cell \pard \s17\qj\ri567\widctlpar\intbl -2\cell \pard\plain \widctlpar\intbl \f4\fs20\lang2057 \row \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
When a character wants to open a channel he chooses a channel width and then concentrates for the required time. When the period of concentration has passed then he rolls against his skill level for that particular Channelling type (including the difficul
ty modifier). If successful the channel is opened. Spells channelled using Basic Channelling use {\i twice} as much energy as the base cost. Spells channelled using Advanced Channelling use {\i half} as much energy has the base cost. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
A critical failure always means that the channelling has failed and a point of fatigue was lost. A critical success reduces the base cost of spells by half. For example, when a critical success is achieved with Advanced Channelling then spell costs are re
duced by 4.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par An example is given below:
\par 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li851\ri851\widctlpar {\fs18 Clem Shirestock, a cleric, decides to use Advanced Channelling to open a channel of width 3. He must spend 3 seconds concentrating and then must roll under 12 (14 minus difficulty modifier of 2). He rolls 11 and 
succeeds. Clem may now ask his deity to cast a spell with a base cost of 6 through him. If the deity obliges then the spell is performed and Clem subtracts 3 from his fatigue or hits level.} 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar As with wizards, channelling can draw power from fatigue or hits. However, clerics have no penalty when using hits.
\par \pard\plain \s18\li170\ri567\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\brdrb\brdrs\brdrw30\brsp20 \scaps\f47\fs28\lang2057\kerning28 Invocation
\par \pard\plain \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar \f43\fs20\lang2057 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Invocation is the act of requesting a deity to perform a spell. Invocations are complicated and require a large amount of concentration. If the individual performing the invocation is successf
ul then the deity may work a spell through them. This chance is greatly increased if the individual has a channel \lquote open\rquote  and ready to use. Casting spells through channels is very easy for deities. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar Different cults (religions) have different methods of invocation. Some cults prefer the name \lquote prayer\rquote  or \lquote mantra\rquote 
 to the word invocation, which is used by the more academic cults. Invocations can be used to cast almost any spell the deity allows. However, the better a characters skill level at invocation the mor
e likely the deity will be to cast a spell. Deities are more reluctant to cast more the powerful spells for their clerics.
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar In order to cast spells a cleric will need to know how to ask for specific spells in a way the deity can understand. Asking a deity to \ldblquote fry the short goblin\rdblquote 
  is unlikely to elicit a response. The knowledge required to do this is embodied in the skill {\i Cult Lore. }In GURPS-Hammer invocation is implemented as a skill. Each type of invocation  has a level associated with it. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar To invoke th
e will of a deity (cast a spell) a character must first indicate which spell they wish the deity to cast and then spend 3 seconds concentrating. At the end of three seconds the character should roll against his Invocation skill level, including the follow
ing modifiers. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}\pard \s17\qj\fi-283\li850\ri567\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ulth\pnf1\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxtb \'b7}}The spell to be cast is a first level spell\tab \tab -2
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}The spell to be cast is a second level spell\tab \tab -4
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}The spell to be cast is a third level spell\tab \tab -6
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}The spell to be cast is a fourth level spell\tab \tab -8
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}The character does not have an open channel\tab -8
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}The open channel is too \lquote thin\rquote \tab \tab \tab -6
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f1\fs20 \'b7\tab}The caster is in a temple or shrine of his deity\tab +2
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
Appropriate modifiers should be added in circumstances where the character is in good or bad standing with the deity. Deities will never let a character invoke a spell that will cause the character to break his or her strictures. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar If a successful invocation roll was made then the spell will occur at the very start of the characters next turn. 
\par \pard \s17\qj\li567\ri567\widctlpar 
\par }