{\rtf1\ansi \deff4\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f112\fscript\fcharset0\fprq2 Lucida Blackletter;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\f4\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Grover Hull}{\operator Grover Hull}{\creatim\yr1990\mo1\dy4\hr20\min22}{\revtim\yr1996\mo2\dy26\hr21\min45}
{\version16}{\edmins321}{\nofpages0}{\nofwords0}{\nofchars0}{\vern49197}}\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noextrasprl\prcolbl\cvmme\sprsspbf\brkfrm\swpbdr\hyphcaps0 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9
\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \f4\fs20 {\b\f112\fs60 Invent Your Own...
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 986-000:    }{\fs24 The }{\i\fs24 Invent Your Own }{\fs24 attribute result on the attributes table of page 113 in }{\i\fs24 Slaves to Darkness}{\fs24 
 presents many interesting possibilities; a few of which are included in the following table.  
\par }\pard \qc {\b\fs24 \tab 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 
\par 01-02\tab Electrical Touch:  }{\fs24 the mutant's touch delivers a highly charged shock which \tab \tab \tab passes right through metal armor.  This touch does damage equivalent
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab to a bare-handed attack though there are no penalties.
\par }{\b\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 03-04\tab Ethereality:  }{\fs24 the mutant may shift part of his being to the chaos warp so as to
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab make attacks on him in the material world impossible.  The mutant may \tab \tab \tab also move through walls and other barriers.  This state may be kept up for \tab \tab \tab 
a maximum of 10 rounds per day, and if the mutant attempts to
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab shift during combat he does so at initiative 10.
\par }{\b\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 05-06\tab Might of the Gods:  }{\fs24 the mutant gains an increase of +2 strength and may stomp \tab \tab \tab on the ground once per round causing it to rumble and shake.  Everyone \tab \tab \tab 
within 12 yards to roll a 1/2 initiative test or fall to the ground.
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 07-08\tab Undeath:  }{\fs24 mutant's flesh crumbles from his bones leaving only the skeleton.  If \tab \tab \tab destroyed in combat by any means short of magic his bones will simply re-\tab \tab \tab knit and he will be fully recovered.

\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 09-10\tab Unnatural Beauty:  }{\fs24 mutant's fellowship score increases by 6d8, to a maximum
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab possible of 100.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 11-12\tab Wound Thief:  }{\fs24 mutant receives the former wounds total of any creature that he 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab kills, added to his own wounds score.  This ability serves only to heal him
\par \tab \tab and cannot take him beyond his maximum score.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 13-14\tab Zombie Lord:  }{\fs24 mutant may bring back anyone he has slain as a zombie under his 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab control.  Demons or other creatures of great power are brought back as
\par \tab \tab mummies.  This power cannot affect anyone that has been dead longer than
\par \tab \tab a year and a day.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 15-16\tab Mind's Eye:  }{\fs24 mutant may read the mind of any non-demonic intelligent creature \tab \tab \tab by laying his hand on the creature for a full round.  If searching for specific \tab \tab \tab 
information or something buried especially deep in the creature's mind it \tab \tab \tab will take the mutant d6 turns to completely extract the information he \tab \tab \tab seeks.
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 17-18\tab Chaos Steed:  }{\fs24 mutant gains a random chaos steed with d6+ 2 attributes.
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 \tab 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 19-20\tab Spectral Demeanor:  }{\fs24 mutant becomes translucent and can barely be seen.  Mutant
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab gains a +20 modifier to all tests involving stealth.  Also, foes suffer a -20
\par \tab \tab to WS when attempting to hit the character.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 21-22\tab Mortal Blast:  }{\fs24 mutant explodes when killed.  Anyone within 12 feet of the blast 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab suffer 2d6+ the mutant's strength.  Only enchanted armor will protect its
\par \tab \tab wearer from this damage.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 23-24\tab Bestial Mind:  }{\fs24 mutant's mind becomes crossed with that of a random creature \tab \tab \tab (roll once on the }{\i\fs24 Universal Creatures Table}{\fs24 ).  Mutant's Int, Ld, Wp, Cl \tab \tab \tab 
and Fel become the average of the two scores.  Other penalties may apply
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab depending on what creature's mind the mutant's has merged with (DM's 
\par \tab \tab discretion).
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 25-26\tab Beast of a Thousand..
\par \tab \tab \tab }{\fs24 Mutant gains hundreds of one of the following:
\par \tab \tab }{\b\fs24 d6\tab Result
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 \tab \tab 1-2\tab Eyes:  }{\fs24 mutant can never be surprised
\par \tab \tab }{\b\fs24 3-4\tab Mouths:  }{\fs24 mutant gains an extra 2d6 bite attacks, which must be
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab \tab determined each round.
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab }{\b\fs24 5-6\tab Ears:  }{\fs24 mutant gains the equivalent of the }{\i\fs24 acute hearing }{\fs24 skill and
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab \tab \tab automatically makes all hearing tests.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 27-28\tab Amorphous Form:  }{\fs24 mutant's body and possessions melt into a large, colorless \tab \tab \tab ameba-like form.  Attacks are reduced to 1, and initiative is divided by 2.
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab The mutant's toughness increases by +2 and wounds are tripled; however
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab fire now causes double damage to the mutant and it is considered \tab \tab \tab \tab }{\i\fs24 flammable}{\fs24 .  Mutant also gains }{\i\fs24 regeneration}{\fs24  (as the attribute).
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 29-30\tab Shadow Blending:  }{\fs24 mutant can travel through shadows by merging with them.  It 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab takes the mutant a full turn to meld but once melded with shadow it cannot \tab \tab be harmed.  Shadows must be connected for the mutant to travel through \tab \tab \tab th
em (note that the mutant cannot meld in complete darkness; there must \tab \tab \tab be some light for there to be shadows).
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 31-32\tab Telepathy:  }{\fs24 mutant may mentally communicate with any creature in his line of \tab \tab \tab vision that has an intelligence of 10 or higher.  Because the communication \tab \tab \tab 
is based on surface thoughts the mutant can only use this ability on a \tab \tab \tab creature that speaks the same language.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 33-34\tab Death Trance:  }{\fs24 mutant can feign death for up to 12 hours utterly convincingly.  \tab \tab \tab While in this state the mutant will not react to pain and is only vaguely \tab \tab \tab 
aware of what is going on, though he may 'wake up' at any time.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 35-36\tab Timelessness:  }{\fs24 mutant possesses the strange ability to stop time completely.  This \tab \tab \tab can be done once in a 24 hour period.  When time is stopped the mutant \tab \tab \tab 
has 6 rounds to do whatever he pleases, so long as he does not tough any \tab \tab \tab other sentient being (touching any other creature resumes the flow of time).  \tab \tab Thus the mutant could steal practically anything, make a getaway, or get \tab 
\tab \tab one free attack on his foe (the foe would count as a prone target after \tab \tab \tab which the flow of time would resume).
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 37-38\tab Favor of Fortune:  }{\fs24 mutant gains an ability similar to the skill }{\i\fs24 luck}{\fs24 , except that 2d6 \tab \tab are rolled for luck points instead of 1.  A mutant that already has luck will \tab \tab \tab 
still end up with 2d6 luck points per day (not 3d6!).
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 39-40\tab Immunity to Poison:  }{\fs24 mutant is completely unaffected by poisons of all kinds.  \tab \tab \tab Any poison tests are made automatically.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 41-42\tab Spirit of Contagion:  }{\fs24 mutant may attempt to take over the body of any creature 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab within 12 yards upon his own demise.  A white vapor rises from the \tab \tab \tab mutant's body and sinks through the creature's skin that is to be taken over.
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab The mutant must roll a Wp test and so must the victim.  The mutant must
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab succeed and the victim must fail for the victim to be taken over.  After a \tab \tab \tab victim is taken over the champion is 'born again' inside the victim's body.  \tab \tab \tab 
He grows rapidly; tearing the victim apart from the inside.  Soon the \tab \tab \tab champion is alive and well again, and at full strength (the transformation \tab \tab \tab takes only 1 round).  The champion's spirit has 2d6 turns to find a victim \tab 
\tab \tab who succumbs, and can move at a rate of 1 (the spirit cannot be touched by \tab \tab any force; and ignores physical barriers).  No more than 3 victims may be \tab \tab \tab 
attempted each turn.  If the time expires and the champion has not found a \tab \tab \tab body his spirit dissipates, and is forever dead.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 43-44\tab Stamina Increase:  }{\fs24 mutant gains a bonus of +8 wounds.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 45-46\tab Spider Climbing:  }{\fs24 mutant can crawl or walk on walls and ceilings as if they were \tab \tab \tab floors.  The mutant cannot carry another creature in this manner, however.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 47-48\tab Lightning Warp:  }{\fs24 mutant becomes completely immune to electricity and, if hit by \tab \tab a lightning bolt he may teleport to any other location in the world where\tab \tab \tab there is a storm.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 49-50\tab Strength Drain:  }{\fs24 whenever the mutant hits a foe he drains 1 point of his foe's \tab \tab \tab strength which the mutant may use until that foe is dead (or until 24 hours \tab \tab \tab 
pass).  The mutant's strength may go above 10 temporarily with this ability.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 51-52\tab Arboreal Agility:  }{\fs24 mutant gains +2 points of strength, +1 points of toughness, and
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab +20 Dex.  Mutant may also move through trees like an ape at double his
\par \tab \tab normal movement score; swinging from branch to branch. 
\par }{\b\fs40 \tab \tab \tab }{\b\fs24 \tab }{\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 53-54\tab Frost Breath:  }{\fs24 identical to }{\i\fs24 breathe fire }{\fs24 except that a cloud of frost is \tab \tab \tab \tab breathed instead.  Damage is superficial and if a victim is "killed"
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab by the breath he is actually encased in ice for 1d100 days, unless 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab freed by some outside force.  Victims encased in the ice are \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab catatonic.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 55-56\tab Hiss of Death:  }{\fs24 may be performed once per turn.  Anyone hearing the hiss 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab must roll a Wp test -10 or lose 10 wounds irregardless of toughness 
\par \tab \tab or armor.  The hiss can only be heard clearly within 5 feet of the
\par \tab \tab champion.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 \tab 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 57-58\tab Viper Gout:  }{\fs24 may be attempted once per round.  Mutant breathes a mass
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab of snakes upon his victims, which will inflict d12 wounds regardless
\par \tab \tab of toughness and armor unless the victim is immune to poison.  The
\par \tab \tab snakes dissolve into nothingness the following round.
\par }{\b\fs24 \tab 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 59-60\tab Breathes Lightning:  }{\fs24 may be attempted once per turn.  The lightning \tab \tab \tab \tab inflicts 2d6 plus the mutant's strength on one target.  Armor will
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab not decrease the damage.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 61-62\tab Rock Like Skin:  }{\fs24 champion\rquote s skin hardens and turns dark grey.  This gives him \tab \tab \tab the appearance of a moving, living statue.  Because of his super dense \tab \tab \tab nature the champion\rquote 
s weight doubles and his skin will turn aside d3 blows \tab \tab \tab per round.}{\b\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 \tab \tab 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 63-64\tab Pain Sensitivity:  }{\fs24 mutant must roll a Wp test each time he is injured or \tab \tab \tab \tab suffer -1/-10 on all stats for d10 rounds thereafter.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 65-66\tab Smoking Skin:  }{\fs24 mutant's skin exudes an oily black smoke, giving foes a 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab penalty of -10 to WS when they are attacking the mutant.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 67-68\tab Youthful Hue:  }{\fs24 mutant appears to be 10 years younger than he actually is.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 69-70\tab Bladed Tongue:  }{\fs24 this attack may only be used if the victim was succesfully 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab grappled and is held (or if the victim is doing something like kissing
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab the mutant).  The mutant's tongue elongates into a rigid, sharp \tab \tab \tab \tab blade and plunges into the victim's mouth or neck.  Damage is d6
\par \tab \tab plus the mutant's strength and the target always takes damage as if \tab \tab \tab \tab he was }{\i\fs24 prone}{\fs24 .
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 71-72\tab Inconstancy:  }{\fs24 mutant can shrink to 1 mm in height to squeeze through \tab \tab \tab \tab small openings.  Mutant may only retain this form for up to one \tab \tab \tab \tab 
hour per twenty four hour period.  Shrinking and returning to 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab normal require 1 attack.  When small the mutant's strength and
\par \tab \tab wounds are reduced to 1, but foes suffer a -30% penalty to
\par \tab \tab hit the tiny mutant.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 73-74\tab Golden Skin:  }{\fs24 champion\rquote s skin turns to pure gold.  This gives him +2 AP but also \tab \tab \tab makes him suffer double damage from flame as his skin will melt easily.  \tab \tab \tab One ounce of the champion
\rquote s skin is worth 6d6 gold crowns.
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 75-76\tab Doppleganger:  }{\fs24 mutant can assume the shape and abilities of anyone they
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab kill, though this new shape will be permanent until they kill \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab someone else.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 77-78\tab Deadeye:  }{\fs24 mutant's BS score increases by 6d8 and the ES of any missile
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab weapon he uses gains a +3 bonus.
\par 
\par }{\b\fs24 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 79-80\tab Blood Absorption:  }{\fs24 mutant may thrust his weapon into the blood of anyone he \tab \tab \tab has killed.  The blood is absorbed into the weapon and heals the champion \tab \tab \tab 
for d6 wounds if he has been injured.  The blood must be fresh; and in any \tab \tab \tab case no older than 10 minutes.}{\b\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 \tab 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 81-82\tab Snake Hands:  }{\fs24 mutant's hands change into the heads of poisonous snakes.
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab Mutant can never be surprised, gains }{\i\fs24 night vision}{\fs24 , and any attacks
\par \tab \tab made with his hands gain a +1 strength bonus and will kill the target
\par \tab \tab unless it passes a toughness test.  The mutant can no longer use 
\par \tab \tab weapons, though he can grasp common objects.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 83-84\tab Steel Teeth:  }{\fs24 mutant's teeth become fangs of gleaming steel.  Mutant gains \tab \tab \tab a bite attack which inflicts 2d6 +S damage.
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 85-86\tab Cat's Eyes:  }{\fs24 mutant's eyes become identical to those of a great cat; such as
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab a tiger.  Mutant gains the skills }{\i\fs24 night vision }{\fs24 and }{\i\fs24 excellant vision}{\fs24 .
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 87-88\tab Keen Senses:  }{\fs24 all of the mutant's senses increase to superhuman levels.
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab Mutant will automatically pass all hearing tests and can never be 
\par \tab \tab surprised.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 89-90\tab Steel Talons:  }{\fs24 mutant grows long, steely claws from his fingers and toes.  
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab Mutant can no longer wear gloves or any kind of boots or shoes.
\par \tab \tab Mutant gains the ability to scale any surface.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 91-92\tab Withered Appearance:  }{\fs24 mutant appears to be an old and decrepid \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab member of his race.  This is only a change in appearance, however, \tab \tab \tab \tab and the mutant's abilities do not change.}{
\b\fs24 \tab \tab }{\fs24  
\par }\pard {\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 93-94\tab Flame Vulnerability:  }{\fs24 mutant counts as }{\i\fs24 flammable }{\fs24 when determining 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab damage from fire.  Also mutant becomes subject to }{\i\fs24 fear }{\fs24 of any
\par \tab \tab open flame, no matter how small.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 95-96\tab Slime Shroud:  }{\fs24 mutant's body becomes draped with a thick, greyish 
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab layer of odorless slime.  This substance is produced by the 
\par \tab \tab champion's body and can never be gotten rid of.  The mutant
\par \tab \tab suffers a -10 penalty to WS and a -30 penalty to BS due to his
\par \tab \tab difficulty in seeing through the shroud.
\par 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 97-98\tab Blood Breath:  }{\fs24 mutant can breathe a spewing stream of boiling blood once per \tab \tab \tab round.  This blood burns victims hit for d10 +8 points and dries \tab \tab \tab \tab 
permanently on any normal metal, making it corroded and useless.
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 
\par }\pard {\b\fs24 99-00\tab Meld into Stone:  }{\fs24 stone no longer exists for the mutant and his body will
\par }\pard {\fs24 \tab \tab pass through it as though it was not there.  Even stone which is \tab \tab \tab \tab enchanted will not have the slightest hindering effect on the mutant.
\par 
\par 
\par \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab -Brian Hull, Ultimate Mind Co.
\par }\pard {\b\fs60 
\par }\pard \qc 
\par }