{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext1 Chapter Heading;}{\s2\qj \b\f16 \sbasedon0\snext2 Section Heading;}{\s3\qj \f16 \sbasedon2\snext3 Subsection Heading;}}{\info}\widowctrl\ftnbj\pgnstart0\makebackup\fracwidth {\*\nextfile perv.gov
:Forms and Summonings}\sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain \s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 Realms of Sorcery\tab Compounds and Scrolls\tab Page {\chpgn }\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 Alchemical Compounds}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj \tab Beings of living flesh may be affected by the magickal properties of many arcane substances through the medium of alchemical compounds. Often direct consumption of substances with magickal properties may have immediate magickal ef
fects, for example, those who drink fresh dragon blood may gain the ability to understand the speech of animals and birds. However, direct consumption is generally inefficient and extremely dangerous, particularly without expert knowledge of the substance 
and its effects. Many arcane substances are either latent in power or extremely toxic unless properly refined and prepared by an alchemist, the expert in identification and preparation of arcane substances.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 Preparing Alchemical Compounds}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Characters m
ust possess the necessary skills, alchemical formulae, trappings, and reagents to prepare alchemical compounds. First, the character must possess the Prepare Compound skill matching the rank of the compound he wishes to prepare. Second, he must have learne
d the alchemical formula for the compound. Finally, he must possess the required reagents and possess, or have access to, the required trappings (i.e., alchemical apparatus). \par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Preparation Quality Score}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A qualified character may attempt to prepare one
 measure of most compounds in a minimum of one hour, with a Preparation Quality Score of 50. For each extra hour spent in preparing the compound, add 10 points to the Preparation Quality Score. (For example, a compound prepared in three hours has a Prepara
tion Quality Score of 70, while a compound prepared in six hours has a Preparation Quality Score of 100.) Certain compounds require more time to prepare. Such exceptions are indicated in the Alchemical Compound Descriptions below.\par 
\tab To determine whether a c
ompound has been successfully prepared, roll 1d100. If the roll is equal to or less than the Preparation Quality Score, the compound has been prepared properly, and is of adequate quality, and is known by the preparer to be such. If the roll is less than t
he Preparation Quality Score, the compound has been spoiled during preparation, and is immediately recognized as such by the preparer. The reagents are ruined, and cannot be used for any alchemical or sorcerous purposes.\par 
\pard \qj \tab Each alchemical compound has a Preparation Quality Score. The preparer always knows the Preparation Quality Score of a compound he has prepared. However, there is no means of testing a compound\rquote 
s preparation except by using the compound; thus, when a character purchases, discovers, or steals a compound, he does not know what the compound\rquote 
s Preparation Quality Score is. When known, the Preparation Quality Score should be noted in parentheses after the name of the potion (e.g., \ldblquote Dust of Coldlight (60)\rdblquote  indicates a compound of Dust of Coldligh
t with a Preparation Quality Score of 60.)\par 
\pard \qj \tab 
Common Reagents are obscure but inexpensive alchemical components. They are often easily collected from nature, or available cheaply from Pharmacists, Herbalists, and Traders, and prepared in bulk and stored by Alchemists. Alchemists are assumed to have a
n ample supply of Common Reagents as part of their trapping. Sorcerors and other characters with Prepare Compound skills must obtain these components separately at the cost of 10% of the potion\rquote s street value. (St
reet values are listed for alchemical compounds below.)\par 
\pard \qj \tab Extraordinary Reagents and True Elements are especially rare or expensive alchemical components. When Extraordinary Reagents or True Elements are required in a compound\rquote 
s description, alchemists, sorcerors, and other characters must specifically purchase these substances or obtain them by other means.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Purchasing Alchemical Compounds}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab In most Old World nations, alchemists and sorcerors are not allowed to sell alchemical compounds without a charter
 from the local rulers or ruling bodies. The Guild may at any time decree that alchemical compounds may only be sold to the State, a typical occurrence in wartime. However, in the past 50 years, alchemical compounds have been more commonly available on the
 open market, though their high costs still limit them to the wealthy nobles and upper middle-class. Because of the dangerous nature of their occupations, many adventurers and soldiers-of-fortune find it wise to invest in useful alchemical compounds like U
nguent of Burnbalm, Potion of Callused Flesh, and Plaster of Falseflesh. The sale of certain alchemical compounds (e.g., Unguent of Disguise and Potion of the Wolf Were) is restricted at all times by the Guild, particularly when abuse of such a alchemical 
compound might lead to criminal activity or injury to the public welfare.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Identifying Alchemical Compounds}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Characters with the Alchemical Lore skill may have some chance of identifying an unlabeled alchemical compound, recognizing a falsely-labeled alchemical compound, or recognizing a spoiled alchemical compound. See \ldblquote 
Alchemical Lore\rdblquote , page ??.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Using Alchemical Compounds}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
Applying one measure of an alchemical compound takes one round; no other action may be taken during that round. Most alchemical compounds must be consumed orally by a character to take effect. Exceptions are as noted in the Alchemical Compound Description
s below. The alchemical compound takes effect at the beginning of the following round. Alchemical compounds have a duration of
 effect of 1d6+3 x 10 minutes (or as noted in the Alchemical Compound Description). The roll for to determine duration is rolled, and noted, in secret by the GM.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Effective Potency and Spoilage}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
Though ancient alchemists apparently had the skill to make alchemical compounds that retained their potencies for centuries, most modern alchemical compounds reliably retain their effectiveness for no more than a week. After one week, there is some risk t
hat the alchemical compound will spoil, possibly losing its magickal effectiveness and/or threatening its consumer with poisoning or harmful side effects. \par 
\tab 
Alchemical compounds created by player characters, and most alchemical compounds encountered in a WFRP campaign, are reliable for no more than seven days. After seven days there is a chance of spoilage. When a character uses a compound over seven days old
, test vs. the Preparation Quality score to determine whether the compound he has consumed has spoiled. Roll 1d100.\par 
\tab If the roll is equal to or less than the 
Preparation Quality Score, the compound has not spoiled, and takes effect normally. If the roll is greater than the Preparation Quality Score, the compound is spoiled. Roll on the Spoiled Alchemical Compound Table below to determine the effects of the spoi
led compound. After 4 weeks there is a much greater chance of spoilage. All tests against the Preparation Quality Score are taken at a -30 penalty. Toxic effects can be found under \ldblquote Harmful Side Effects\rdblquote , below.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qc \f16 {\b Spoiled Alchemical Compound Table\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab {\ul Roll}\tab {\ul Spoiled Compound Effect}\par 
\tab 01-50\tab Compound takes effect normally, but user is affected by Addled Wits.\par 
\tab 51-75\tab Compound has no effect and is Toxic.\par 
\tab 76-95\tab Compound has no effect and is Extremely Toxic.\par 
\tab 96-00\tab Compound has no effect and user suffers from Shock.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Harmful Side Effects}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
Some compounds may have a potential for harmful side effects. If indicated as such below in the Alchemical Compound Description, roll 1d100. If the score falls within range listed in the description, the user has suffered the lis
ted harmful side effects. See below for description of types of side effects.\par 
\tab Amnesia: User forgets all experiences during period of compound\rquote s effect.\par 
\tab Addled Wits: All Int and Int-based skill tests are at a -20 penalty for 1d6+3 rounds.\par 
\tab Dulled Senses: Enhancement of senses causes them to burn out temporarily. Appropriate sense is blinded for 1d6 hours.\par 
\tab Toxic: User tests vs. Toughness x 10. If test failed, user takes 1d6 wounds disregarding Toughness. If test passed, no further harmful side effect.\par 
\tab Extremely Toxic: User tests vs. Toughness x 5. If test failed, user takes 2d6 wounds disregarding Toughness. If test passed, user takes 1d6 wounds disregarding Toughness.\par 
\tab Shock: User\rquote s spirit is stunned. User receives 1 Insanity Point and falls into a deep autistic trance for 1d6 hours, and cannot be roused by normal or magickal means. (Certain divine magicks may be effective at the GM\rquote 
s discretion.) Victim\rquote s involuntary reactions remain effective, and victim can be led like a docile child, but is not aware of and does not respond to the outside world.\par 
\tab Severe Mental Trauma: User\rquote s mind receives a severe shock. User receives 1d6+1 Insanity Points.\par 
\tab 
Dependency: User becomes psychologically dependent on the compound. When not in possession of at least one measure of the compound, all skills and attribute tests are made a -20 penalty. When under stress (including faced with attack or confronted by dang
er, powerful personalities, or difficult tasks), test vs. WP to compulsively use the compound. If under stress, an
d without access to the compound, all skills and attribute tests are made at a -40 penalty. Dependency is a disorder, and can only be cured as such. (See {\ul WFRP}, Chapter 2, \ldblquote Curing Disorders\rdblquote .)\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 Alchemical Compound Descriptions}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The descriptions below give the following information about alchemical compounds:\par 
\tab {\ul Name of Compound}: Printed in bold type at the beginning of the description.\par 
\tab {\ul Street Value}: The first of two figures in parentheses after the name of the compound. Street Value is the cost of the co
mpound if purchased at typical prices from an alchemist in a settlement of a population of 10,000 persons or more. Costs in smaller settlements may vary considerably, particularly if the compound is in scarce supply.\par 
\tab {\ul Availability}: The second of two figures in parentheses after the name of the compound. Availability indicates how likely it would be to find the compound for sale in a community of a given population. Availability is indicated in terms of the 
\ldblquote Goods and Services Availability Chart\rdblquote , {\ul WFRP}, page 292. A negative modifier following the availability indicates exceptionally limited availability, and is a negative modifiers to the percent values indicated in the \ldblquote 
Goods and Services Availability Chart\rdblquote .\par 
\tab {\ul Description of Compound and Effects}: Text following name, street value, and availability. Describes the nature and game effects of the compound.\par 
\tab {\ul Components}: Lists reagents necessary to prepare the compound.\par 
\tab {\ul Harmful Side Effects}: If a compound is listed with this feature, roll 1d100 when using the comp
ound. If the roll falls within one of the ranges listed in the description, the user has suffered the indicated Harmful Side Effect. See above for explanations of the various forms of Harmful Side Effects.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Prepare Petty Compound (Apprentice Rank)}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\bullet  Tincture of Hercules Woundwort (50 GC/Plentiful)\par 
\bullet  Bromide of Toxin Antidote (50 GC/Scarce)\par 
\bullet  Bromide of Deleriant Antidote (50 GC/Scarce)\par 
\bullet  Bromide of Venom Antidote (50 GC/Average)\par 
\bullet  Unguent of Phlegethon (200 GC/Rare)\par 
\bullet  Unguent of Burnbalm (50 GC/Plentiful)\par 
\bullet  Tincture of NightEye (50 GC/Scarce)\par 
\bullet  Tincture of BeastHearing (50 GC/Scarce)\par 
\bullet  Tincture of BeastSmell (50 GC/Average)\par 
\bullet  Incense of [Specific] BeastScent (50 GC/Scarce)\par 
\bullet  Incense of [Specific] MonsterScent (200 GC/Very Rare)\par 
\bullet  Incense of GraveScent (200 GC/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Soot Punk (50 GC/Average)\par 
\bullet  Fulminate of Sal Armoniac (50 GC/Scarce)\tab  \par 
\par 
\tab {\ul Tincture of Hercules Woundwort} (50 GC/Plentiful): Aids in healing of wounds (+20 to Heal Wounds skill; +1 to wounds). Components: Common Reagents.\par 
\tab {\ul Bromide of Toxin Antidote} (50 GC/Scarce): If administered immediately, permits Poison test at +50 to reduce level of dosage by one (i.e., neutralizes one dose of toxin). Components: Common Reagents and 1 measure of toxin to be neutralized.
\par 
\tab {\ul Bromide of Deleriant Antidote}
 (50 GC/Scarce): If administered immediately, permits Poison test at +50 to reduce level of dosage by one (i.e., neutralizes one dose of deleriant). Components: Common Reagents and 1 measure of deleriant to be neutralized.\par 
\tab {\ul Bromide of Venom Antidote} (50 GC/Average): If administered immediately, permits Poison test at +50 to reduce level of dosage by one (i.e., neutralizes one dose of venom). Components: Common Reagents and 1 measure of venom to be neutralized.
\par 
\tab {\ul Unguent of Phlegethon}
 (200 GC/Rare): A viscous form of Lesser Water of Fire, which is flammable without heat. Produces normal firelight. When applied to body, reduces fire damage by 2 points. One application covers one guy, or half a real big guy. Components: Common Reagents; 
Durable Water and Durable Fire.\par 
\tab {\ul Unguent of Burnbalm}
 (50 GC/Plentiful): Soothes and promotes healing of burned tissues. Heals 2 wound points caused by fire damage. Subsequent applications have no effect on the same wound. Components: Common Reagents (including common healing herbs)\par 
\tab {\ul Tincture of NightEye}
 (50 GC/Scarce): Drops placed in eye to provide Night Vision: made from eyes of any living night-visioned humanoid. (Note that dwarfs and elves look askance at humans who prepare or use this tincture, under suspicion that eyes came
 from dwarfs and elves, which are easily obtained; most goblinoids provide equally effective components, but cause some discomfort and swelling.) Components: Common Reagents and two eyes of a night-visioned humanoid. Harmful Side Effects: Dulled Senses (Si
ght) 99-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Tincture of BeastHearing} (50 GC/Scarce): Drops placed in ear to provide enhanced hearing: made from hearing organs of keen-eared beasts. Bonus of +20 and halves effective range for Listen tests. Components: Common Reagents and hearing organs o
f a keen-eared beast. Harmful Side Effects: Dulled Senses (Hearing) 99-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Tincture of BeastSmell}
 (50 GC/Average): Drops placed in nose to produce superior sense of smell; common compound from beast scent organs is weaker and less effective; compound from select Beastman glands, and particularly from Ogre and Dragon glands, of special efficacy. Compon
ents: Common Reagents and beast scent organs; exceptional sense of smell from Beastman, Ogre, and Dragon scent organs. Harmful Side Effects: Dulled Senses (Smell) 99-00 (81-00 from Beastman, Ogre, or Dragon reagents).\par 
\tab {\ul Incense of [Specific] BeastScent} (50 GC/Scarce): Releases a strong scent of the beast from which the incense is made. Only a single species\rquote 
 scent can be contained in a single measure of incense. Exact imitation of the scent of a single beast of the species. In outdoors or well-ventilate
d areas, area of effect is 4-yard-cubed, duration is 1d6+3 rounds; scent may be dispersed or carried along by draft or wind at GM\rquote s discretion. In enclosed area, a
rea of effect is 6-yard cubed area, duration is 1d6 hours. Components: Common Reagents and extracts from specific beast\rquote s glands.\par 
\tab {\ul Incense of [Specific] MonsterScent} (200 GC/Very Rare): Releases a strong scent of the monster from which the incense is made. Only a single monster\rquote 
s scent can be contained in a single measure of incense. Exact imitation of the scent of a single monster of the species. In outdoors or well-ventilated areas, area of effect is 4-yard-cubed, duration is 1d6+3 rounds; scent may be di
spersed or carried along by draft or wind at GM\rquote 
s discretion. In enclosed area, area of effect is 6-yard cubed area, duration is 1d6 hours. Note: Since most monsters are rarely encountered, few creatures or humanoids are familiar with their scents. However
, fear of monsters is almost instinctive, and the scent of creatures which cause fear or terror may cause creatures and humanoids to test vs. Cool at the GM\rquote s discretion. Components: Common Reagents and extracts from specific monster\rquote 
s glands.\par 
\tab {\ul Incense of GraveScent}
 (200 GC/Very Rare-10): Releases a strong scent of undead creatures. No effect on unintelligent creatures. Intelligent humanoids test vs. Cool or are affected with Fear. In outdoors or well-ventilated areas, area of effect is 4-yard-cubed, duration is 1d6+
3 rounds. In enclosed area, area of effect is 6-yard cubed area, duration is 1d6 hours. Components: Common Reagents, Calcinate of Zombie or Ghoul Flesh.\par 
\tab {\ul Soot Punk} (50 GC/Average): When ignited, produces a thick cloud of black, acrid smoke which 
floats in the air until its particles contact and adhere to a surface. In outdoors or well-ventilated areas, area of effect is 4-yard-cubed, duration is 1d6+3 rounds; scent may be dispersed or carried along by draft or wind at GM\rquote 
s discretion. In enclosed 
area, area of effect is 6-yard cubed area, duration is 1d6 hours. Beings and objects passing through the cloud or engulfed in the cloud are covered with dark, black, tacky soot which adheres to the surface, and resists removal without dedicated scrubbing. 
Detects as inactive magick. Note: Good for marking and tracking beings. Punk must remain stationary while cloud is being formed, else the punk will go out, and the cloud will not be produced. Components: Common Reagents\par 
\tab {\ul Fulminate of Sal Armoniac} (50 GC/Scarce): 1d6 Wounds at Strength 3 per measure; ignite with fire; not suitable as a bomb; loud boom and acrid smoke. Components: Common Reagents.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Prepare Craft Compound (Rank 1)}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\bullet  Fulminate of Brimstone (100 GC/Rare)\par 
\bullet  Seed of Ice (200 GC/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Seed of Air (200 GC/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Seed of Fire (200 GC/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Seed of Earth (200 GCVery Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Potion of Callused Flesh (100 GC/Scarce)\par 
\bullet  Warpdust (?? GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Greek Fire (200 GC/Very Rare-20)\par 
\bullet  Dust of Coldlight (200 GC/Very Rare)\par 
\bullet  Philter of Berserker Frenzy (50 GC/Scarce; Common in Dwarven settlements)\par 
\bullet  Potion of [Given Beast Species] Speech (50 GC + cost of beast extract/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Philter/Oil of [Given Creature] Control (50 GC+cost of creature extract/Very Rare-20)\par 
\bullet  Philter of Love (50 GC/Rare)\par 
\bullet  Potion of Alectorian (50 GC/Rare)\par 
\bullet  Unguent of Disguise (100-200 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Plaster of Falseflesh (100 GC/Average)\par 
\bullet  Permiate of Slime (50 GC/Very Rare)\par 
\par 
\tab {\ul Fulminate of Brimstone} (100 GC/Rare): 1d6 Wounds at Strength 6 per measure; 1 measure = 1 bomb (see {\ul WFRP}, p. 127); ignite with fire or with fuse; loud boom and acrid smoke. Components: Common Reagents.\par 
\tab {\ul Seed of Ice} (200 GC/Very Rare-10): Tiny pellet. When exposed to water, freezes all fluids within four-yard radius for 2d6+6 minutes. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Water.\par 
\tab {\ul Seed of Air}
 (200 GC/Very Rare-10): Tiny pellet. When exposed to air, causes a gale wind to blow from the seed in all directions for 2d6+6 minutes. Creatures less than 10 feet tall test vs. Strength x 5 or are thrown prone and blown 2 yards per round. Disruption and d
amage to surroundings at GM\rquote s discretion. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Air.\par 
\tab {\ul Seed of Fire} (200 GC/Very Rare-10): Tiny pellet. When exposed to open flame, ignites all inflammable material within four-yard radius and causes it to burn intensely for 2d6+6 minutes. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Fire.\par 
\tab {\ul Seed of Earth} (200 GCVery Rare-10): Tiny pellet. When exposed to earth, causes all soil and mud within 4-yard-radius to harden to a rock-like consistency for 2d6+6 minutes. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Earth.\par 
\tab {\ul Potion of Callused Flesh} (100 GC/Scarce): Same effect as Petty spell {\i toughen flesh}. Components: Common Reagents, extracts from Ogre or Beastman flesh.\par 
\tab {\ul Warpdust} (
??GC/Very Rare-24): Warpstone calcinate mixed with lead and rendered inert. When exposed to direct flame, warpstone dust is released. Those in area of effect must test vs. Toughness x 10 or become tainted with Chaos. GM secretly tests and notes results; vi
ctims may develop mutations within 10 days, or Taint may lie dormant indefinitely. In outdoors or well-ventilated areas, area of effect is 4-yard-cubed, duration is 1d6+3 rounds; scent may be dispersed or carried along by draft or wind at GM\rquote 
s discretion. In enclosed area, area of effect is 6-yard cubed area, duration is 1d6 hours. Note: Possession or use of this compound is treason. Components: Common Reagents, Warpstone. Harmful Side Effects: Taint of Chaos 51-00, as per description.\par 
\tab {\ul Greek Fire} (200 GC/Very Rare-20): A tarry substance that burns stubbornly, even on non-flammable materials. Covers 1 square foot per measure, burns for 1d6+3 rounds, causing damage as described in \ldblquote Fire\rdblquote , {\ul WFRP}
, page 80. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Fire, Durable Water.\par 
\tab {\ul Dust of Coldlight}
 (200 GC/Very Rare): Dust particles which glow with the strength of candlelight when exposed to air. Glow lasts 1d6+3 hours. Effective when entire application is upon a one-foot-square area; more diffuse application causes glow to fail. Components: Common 
Reagents, Durable Fire, Durable Air.\par 
\tab {\ul Philter of Berserker Frenzy} (50 GC/Scarce, but Common in Dwarven settlements): Taken orally. Subject instantly seized with fighting frenzy (see \ldblquote Frenzy\rdblquote , {\ul WFRP}, page 69); no Cool test is taken. Compo
nents: Common reagents. Note: Humanoid glandular extracts, an essential component of this preparation, may be obtained by surgery without harm to the donor. Harmful Side Effects: Addled Wits 91-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Potion of [Given Beast Species] Speech} (50 GC + cost of beast extract/Very Rare-10): Speak the language of a given beast species. Does not compel the beast to pay attention; user must successfully appeal to the beast\rquote 
s curiosity or needs. Communication is no greater than you\rquote d expect, given the beast\rquote s limited i
ntelligence and comprehension of things outside its experience. Components: Common Reagents and brain extracts from specific creature. (Note: Extracts from normal beasts vary from 1 GC for common animals like rabbits, rats, and horses to 50 GC for dangerou
s, foreign, or rare creatures like bears and lions. Extracts from magickal creatures are Extraordinary Reagents; therefore, all speech preparations for magickal creatures require Extraordinary Reagents.) Harmful Side Effects: Addled Wits 91-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Philter/Oil of [Given Creature] Control}
 (50 GC + cost of creature extract/Very Rare-20): Philter must be introduced orally to the creature, which will then closely and peaceably follow an object or person anointed with the oil of control. Philter is a creature-specific stimulant of curiosity/se
xual attraction mixed with a tranquilizing drug. Oil is a preparation of the creature\rquote s sexual glands; must be collected when creature is in mating season. Duration is 1d6 hours per dose. Stimulant usually wears off first, leav
ing animal no longer tractable, but docile. Components: Common Reagents and glandular extracts from specific creature. (Note: Extracts from normal beasts vary from 1 GC for common animals like rabbits, rats, and horses to 50 GC for dangerous, foreign, or r
are creatures like bears and lions. Extracts from magickal creatures are Extraordinary Reagents; therefore, all control preparations for magickal creatures require Extraordinary Reagents.) Harmful Side Effects: Addled Wits 91-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Philter of Love} (50 GC/Ra
re): When taken orally, causes subject to fall in love with the first humanoid of the opposite sex viewed after consuming the preparation. No test to resist if humanoid of opposite sex is at least marginally appropriate as a subject of romantic love, and o
f the same humanoid species. Test vs. WP to resist compulsion if first person viewed is of another humanoid species, or grotesquely ugly or otherwise intensely inappropriate as an object of love. Components: Common Reagents and Humanoid Species Glandular E
xtracts. Harmful Side Effects: Addled Wits 91-00.\par 
\tab Note: Also Philters of Friendship (+20 Fellowship); Distrust (-20 Fellowship); Enmity (Test vs. Cool or attack); Fear (Test vs. Cool or Flee!). Application as smear, additive, blade venom, or gas.\par 
\tab {\ul Potion of Alectorian} (50 GC/Rare): Courage potion; +20 to Cool tests; made from stones found in stomach of cocks. Components: Common Reagents and cock stomach stones. Harmful Side Effects: Amnesia 96-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Unguent of Disguise} (100-200 GC/Very Rare-24): Common reag
ents permit change of coloring and rapid growth of head, body, and facial hair; extraordinary reagents from preserved Doppleganger bits permit voluntary reshaping of tissues as well as control of coloring and hair. Components: Common Reagents; preserved Do
ppleganger tissue for exceptional effects.\par 
\tab {\ul Plaster of Falseflesh} (100 GC/Average): When applied to any critical wound (including severed limbs), it causes the injury to seal itself in 1d6+3 rounds. Terminal Bleeding is automatically staunched; broken, dis
located, or amputated limbs are sealed and immobilized. The victim is restored to 0 Wound Points and is considered heavily wounded. Injury must be treated by Surgery or Heal Wounds before natural healing begins. Injured being may be moved without danger. N
ote: Falseflesh does not actually heal the injury. The injury is simply sealed with the regenerating virtues of falseflesh, so the victim does not develop the unsightly scars associated with Balm of Regeneration (see below). Components: Common Reagents, As
sorted Fresh Troll Tissues.\par 
\tab {\ul Permiate of Slime}
 (50 GC/Very Rare): When applied to bare flesh, causes subject to ooze a thick slime that adheres or becomes slippery at will; adhering is handy when climbing walls; slippery is handy when grappling. 20 point modifiers to appropriate tests at the GM
\rquote s discretion. Components: Common Reagents and bushels of slugs; giant slug produces a slime of exceptional durability and tenacity. Harmful Side Effects: Dulled Senses (Touch) 91-00.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Prepare Master Compound (Rank 2)}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\bullet  Fulminate of Orpiment (100 GC/Very Rare)\par 
\bullet  Balm of Regeneration (200 GC/Very Rare)\par 
\bullet  Water of Tempered (True Metal) (100 GC + Cost of Given True Metal/Very Rare)\par 
\bullet  Philter of Fellowship (100 GC/Very Rare)\par 
\bullet  Water of Magnesium: (200 GC/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Potion of Lift (100 GC/Very Rare)\par 
\bullet  Unguent of Scabrous Healing (200 GC/Very Rare)\par 
\bullet  Extract of Ogre Adrenal (200 GC/Very Rare)\par 
\bullet  Extract of Elf Gland (150 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Distillate of Faithful Blood (200 GC/Rare)\par 
\bullet  Oil of Speed (200 GC/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Potion of BeastSpeech (1000 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Dust of Essential Air (200 GC/Very Rare)\par 
 \par 
\tab {\ul Fulminate of Orpiment} (100 GC/Very Rare): No damage, but all humanoids within 1 inch square (1 yd.) receive 1d3 doses of toxin equivalent to Manbane; all humanoids in adjacent square receive 1d3-1 doses. Components: Common Reagents.\par 
\tab {\ul Balm of Regeneration} (200 GC/Very Rare): When applied to any critical wound (including severed limbs), it causes the injury to heal in 1d6+3 rounds. The victim is restored to 2 Wound
 Points. Healed wound leaves a spectacular wart-studded scar, with discolored, dark greenish tint around scar. Injured being can move under his own power as soon as the wound is healed. Components: Common Reagents, Fresh humanoid Blood, Assorted Fresh Trol
l Tissues. Harmful Side Effects: Shock 99-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Water of Tempered (True Metal)} (100 GC + Cost of Given True Metal/Very Rare): When applied to the appropriate metal, soaks into the metal and causes it to become extremely hard, yet subtly flexible. Applicatio
n to a single weapon gives a bonus of +1 to damage, and causes damage to magickal creatures. Application to a location\rquote 
s worth of armor or a shield causes it to absorb +1 points of damage. Note: Since weapons are usually made of iron, most of these compoun
ds are Water of Tempered Iron, though Water of Tempered Mithril and Water of Tempered Silver may also be found, though fabulously expensive. Components: Common Reagents, Appropriate Noble Metal.\par 
\tab {\ul Philter of Fellowship} (100 GC/Very Rare): Taken orally. Humanoids within 2 yards react in a friendly and trusting manner. User receives a +20 bonus to his Fellowship for all tests. Those within range may test vs. WP to resist effect {\b if}
 they are alert and suspicious of magickal persuasion. Components: Common Reagents.\par 
\tab {\ul Water of Magnesium}
: (200 GC/Very Rare-10): A liquid form of metal which burns with intense heat. Causes 1d6 damage at Strength 10 to one body location, or to a one-foot-by-one-foot area. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Earth, Durable Water, Durable Fire\par 
\tab {\ul Potion of Lift} (100 GC/Very Rare): Taken orally. Subject and up to one-half encumbrance allowance floats as if weightless. If provided with artificial wings or other propulsion, fly as a \ldblquote hoverer\rdblquote 
. Without propulsion, climbs and dives as a \ldblquote hoverer\rdblquote , but cannot fly leve
l. Greater Compound. Components: Common Reagents, preserved lifting body of dragon, wyvern, hippogriff, pegasus, jabberwock, or manticore; Durable Air stabilizers.\par 
\tab {\ul Unguent of Scabrous Healing} (200 GC/Very Rare): Heals 1 wound per rou
nd for 2d6+2 rounds. Leaves ugly masses of distorted scar tissue, cosmetically unappealing but not dangerous to health. Components: Common Reagents, equal parts of fresh troll blood and fresh species baby blood. Sale and possession of this unguent is outla
wed by state and most cults, though available on the black market for high prices. Fairly common in goblin and dark elf culture, and considered valuable trade goods by ogres, giants, and many other monstrous intelligent humanoids. Harmful Side Effects: Sho
ck 91-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Extract of Ogre Adrenal}
 (200 GC/Very Rare): +1 Strength, user gets real hungry, must test vs. Cool to impulsively eat any food in possession or in sight. Components: Common Reagents, Ogre Adrenal Extract. Harmful Side Effects: Addled Wits 91-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Extract of Elf Gland} (150 GC/Very Rare-24): +20 Initiative. Components: Common Reagents and elf glandular extracts.\par 
\tab {\ul Distillate of Faithful Blood} (200 GC/Rare): Retards user blood loss, and automatically prevents Terminal Bleeding. Reduce all wound loss 
from weapons by 1 point for duration of effect. Components: Common Reagents, Assorted Preserved Troll Tissues.\par 
\tab {\ul Oil of Speed}
 (200 GC/Very Rare-10): Hyper-stimulates the muscles and sense organs of the user. +2 Move, +40 Initiative, +1 Attack, -30 WS, BS, Dex, Int, and all skills. Cannot cast spells. One measure must be applied to a skin surface, and takes 1d6 rounds to take eff
ect. (A resisting or suspicious victim may test vs. Strength {\b or} Dexterity +30 to avoid an application; oil cannot be used as a missi
le or with a gas.) User is frantic with energy and excitement, cannot stand still, and must test vs. WP or move at run speed each round. Components: Common Reagents, Extract of Hippogriff glands. Harmful Side Effects: Amnesia 96-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Potion of BeastSpeech} [1000 GC/Very Rare-24]: Speak the language of all normal animals. Does not compel the beast to pay attention; user must successfully appeal to the beast\rquote s curiosity or needs. Communication is no greater than you
\rquote d expect, given the animal\rquote s limited intelligence and comprehension of things outside its experience. Greater Compound. Components: Common reagents + dragon\rquote 
s blood stabilized with durable elements. Harmful Side Effects: Amnesia 91-00\par 
\tab {\ul Dust of Essential Air} (a.k.a. \ldblquote Lucky Snuff\rdblquote 
) (200 GC/Very Rare): When snorted or breathed into lungs, permits user to hold his breath for 5d10+10 minutes. Real handy underwater or in toxic atmospheres (like Toxicbloom and Lungfirebloom spell effects). Components: Common Reagents, Durable Air.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Prepare Select Compound (Rank 3)}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\bullet  Extract of Troll Adrenal (200 GC/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Aethyrwax (300 GC/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Aethyrdust (300 GC/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Tincture of AethyrSight (500 GC/Very Rare-20)\par 
\bullet  Potion of Foreign Speech (500 GC/Very Rare-20)\par 
\bullet  Sublimate of Ennobled Spirit (500 GC/Very Rare-20)\par 
\bullet  Sublimate of Ennobled Genius (500 GC/Very Rare-20)\par 
\bullet  Distillate of Treacherous Blood (200 GC/Very Rare-10)\par 
\bullet  Pastille of FeverBalm (200 GC/Very Rare):\par 
\bullet  Wax of the Meargh (\ldblquote Dreamdust\rdblquote ) (400 GC/Very Rare-20)\par 
\bullet  Potion of Flight (400 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Potion of Seductive Musk (500 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Unguent of Transformation (500 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\par 
\tab {\ul Extract of Troll Adrenal}
 (200 GC/Very Rare-10): +2 Strength, user gets real stupid, must test vs. Int. to avoid getting Really Bad Ideas. (A wonderful roleplaying challenge; if necessary, GM may intervene and assess penalties to subjects behaving too intelligently.) Components: C
ommon Reagents, Troll Adrenal Extract. Harmful Side Effects: Shock Wits 91-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Aethyrwax} (300 GC/Very Rare-10): Used as candle or applied directly to flame. Produces a cloud of invisible magick smoke. Sense Magick and {\i detect magick}
 are blocked by the smoke cloud. In outdoors or well-ventilated areas, area of effect is 4 yards cubed, duration is 1d6+3 rounds. In enclosed area, area of effect is 6 yards cubed area, duration is 1d6 hours. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Aethyr.
\par 
\tab {\ul Aethyrdust} (300 GC/Very Rare-10): May coat one humanoid-sized being or a surface 4 yards square. Sense Magick or {\i detect magick} reveals t
he dust-covered humanoid or surface as magickal, though the nature of the magic is obscure. Used to distract or confound magick detection, or as a bait when setting traps for magicians and adventurers. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Aethyr.\par 
\tab {\ul Tincture of AethyrSight} (500 GC/Very Rare-20): See sources of magick as with the {\i detect magick}
 spell. Does not interfere with viewing of non-magickal phenomena. Duration 1 hour. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Air, Durable Fire, Extract of Daemon Eye. Harmful Side Effects: Dulled Senses (Blindness) 51-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Potion of Foreign Speech}
 (500 GC/Very Rare-20): Subject talks like a native (and may think like a native, too). Greater Compound. Components: Common Reagents, preserved brain, vocal chords, lips and palate of appropriate humanoid, and Durable Water stabilizers. Note: A Lesser Com
pound (100 GC) may be made if fresh humanoid materials are available. Harmful Side Effects: Addled Wits 96-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Sublimate of Ennobled Spirit} (500 GC/Very Rare-20): Gives the user\rquote s sp
irit a heightened awareness and concentration, permitting a +20 to WP tests. Components: Common Reagents, Fresh Humanoid Blood, Durable Aethyr. Harmful Side Effects: Dependency 99-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Sublimate of Ennobled Genius} (500 GC/Very Rare-20): Gives the user\rquote 
s mind heightened intensity and concentration, permitting a +20 to Int tests. However, for the duration of the effect, the user cannot communicate with others, is unaware of his surroundings, and loses the benefits of
 all involuntary functions and responses other than breathing. User is treated as a prone target for combat. Components: Common Reagents, Fresh Humanoid Brain Tissue, Durable Aethyr. Harmful Side Effects: Dependency 99-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Distillate of Treacherous Blood}
 (200 GC/Very Rare-10): When the victim loses 1 or more Wound Points as a result of a weapon attack (or other similar injury), he suffers immediately from Terminal Bleeding. Flow of blood may be staunched by normal means (see Terminal Bleeding, Combat). Ma
y be transmitted as an additive or blade venom poison. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Water, Fresh Humanoid Blood.\par 
\tab {\ul Pastille of FeverBalm} (200 GC/Very Rare): Temporarily suppresses the disorders and bizarre behavior associated with failed Insanity tests. User becomes docile and cooperative for 2d6+6 hours. All the user\rquote 
s skill and characteristic tests receive a -40 penalty. Components: Common Reagents, fresh Dwarf blood, Madman\rquote s Cap (deleriant). Harmful Side Effects: Dependency 91-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Wax of the Meargh} (\ldblquote Dreamdust\rdblquote ) (400 GC/Very Rare-20): Mad
e into candles or applied directly to flame. Odorless, invisible smoke fills a 10-foot-cubed volume. Victims in smoke fall into a sleepwalking, daydreaming state, and remain motionless where they stand in a rapt trance, unaware of their surroundings. Test 
vs. WP -20 to resist. Loud or violent stimuli automatically wake victims, and smoke has no further effect. Gentle disturbances may permit further WP -20 tests at GM discretion. In outdoors or well-ventilated areas, area of effect is 4-yard-cubed, duration 
is 1d6+3 rounds; scent may be dispersed or carried along by draft or wind at GM\rquote 
s discretion. In enclosed area, area of effect is 6-yard cubed area, duration is 1d6 hours. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Air, Extract of Meargh Glands. Harmful Side Effects: Amnesia 51-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Potion of Flight} (400 GC/Very Rare-24): Magickal properties of dragon blood which neutralize mass and gravity are temporarily transferred to the user\rquote s blood. User can float in the air, but must provide his own means of locomotion. Sw
imming works poorly, artificial wings and towing by fliers works well. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Air and Water, Preserved Dragon's Blood. Harmful Side Effects: Toxic 91-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Potion of Seductive Musk}
 (500 GC/Very Rare-24): Humanoid who ingests this potion exudes an extremely subtle scent which causes victims of the opposite sex who come within 5 yards to become deeply infatuated with the user. Infatuated victims will do anything to please the user, an
d will cheerfully perform even tasks which invo
lve serious threat of injury (test vs. Int -30 to resist). Victims may test vs. WP -30 to resist infatuation. In outdoors or well-ventilated areas, area of effect is 4 yards cubed, duration is 1d6+3 rounds; scent may be dispersed or carried along by draft 
or wind at GM\rquote s discretion. In enclosed area, area of effect is 6 yards cubed area, duration is 1d6 hours. Components: Common Reagents, Durable Air, extracts of Harpy glands. Harmful Side Effects: Shock 91-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Unguent of Transformation} (500 GC/Very Rare-2
4): User can shape self into the appearance of any creature of similar mass. Human forms can be closely mimicked. Alien shapes (lots of legs, fish-shape, wings, etc.) are only moderately successful. Alien appendages, orifices, and organs do not function li
ke the mimicked creature (e.g., a giant spider might be mimicked, but only four legs would be functional, and no spider silk could be manufactured). Components: Common Reagents, sublimates of the four domains, fresh Doppleganger blood.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Prepare Grand Compound (Rank 4)}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\bullet  Elixir of Amaranth (?? GC/Not Available for Sale)\par 
\bullet  Elixir of Invulnerability 1000 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Delusional Invulnerability (200 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Alkahest (\ldblquote Universal Solvent\rdblquote ) (1000 GC/Very Rare-20)\par 
\bullet  Infusion of the Basilisk (2000 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Troche of Countermagick (600 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Potion of the [Specific] Were (2000 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\bullet  Elixir of Noble Health (1000 GC/Very Rare-20)\par 
\bullet  Elixir of Life in Death (?? GC/Not Available for Sale)\par 
\bullet  Permiate of Demanifestation (2000 GC/Very Rare-24)\par 
\par 
\tab {\ul Elixir of Amaranth}
 (?? GC/Not Available for Sale): Protects from ill-effects of aging for one year. May not be used retroactively. Preparation Time: A minimum of one month, with a Preparation Quality Score of 50; for each extra month spent in preparing the compound, add 10 
points to the Preparation Quality Score. Components: Unknown. Rumored variously to require True Gold, fresh greater daemon and/or dragon blood, anima mundi, true elements, and warpstone. Harmful Side Effects: Severe Mental Trauma 91-00; Dependency 81-00.
\par 
\tab {\ul Elixir of Invulnerability} (1000 GC/Very Rare-24): +4 Toughness, +40 WP. Components: Common Reagents, True Earth, Water, Fire, and Air, preserved lesser daemon\rquote 
s blood. Harmful Side Effects: Extremely Toxic 91-00; Severe Mental Trauma: 61-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Delusional Invulnerability} (200 GC/Very Rare-24): User believes himself invulnerable. Challenges or attacks all beings perceived as enemies or rivals, including daemons and gods, that cross his path. Self-confidence is abs
olute. Components: Common Reagents, deleriants.\par 
\tab {\ul Alkahest} (\ldblquote Universal Solvent\rdblquote 
) (1000 GC/Very Rare-20): Dissolves a 1-yard-cubed volume of any and all substances, leaving a measure of each True Elemental substance (Durable Earth, Air, Fire, and Water) as a residue. Alchemists with their apparatus may collect res
idues for use as reagents. Other substances within the volume of effect are, of course, destroyed, having been disintegrated. Preparation Time: A minimum of one week, with a Preparation Quality Score
 of 50; for each extra week spent in preparing the compound, add 10 points to the Preparation Quality Score. Components: Common Reagents, Fugacious Air, Fire, Water, Earth, & Aethyr. Requires enchanted container. Harmful Side Effects: Critical Hit +6 as it
 spills all over you.\par 
\tab {\ul Infusion of the Basilisk} (2000 GC/Very Rare-24): Causes the eyes of the user to produce a weak glow which turns to stone any living creature it makes eye contact with, or plant it illuminates. Living plants turn to stone automaticall
y. Living creatures test vs. WP -20 to resist each round if within range of gaze, with a +60 bonus if eyes are closed or averted from the user\rquote 
s glowing eyes. For each round within the range of the gaze, victims receive a penalty of 1 point from Move and 1
0 points from all characteristic and skill tests. When Move reaches 0, the victim is permanently turned to stone, and therefore dies. If not turned to stone, victim recovers completely in 1d6 days. Range of the effect is 4 yards. In daylight, the glow of t
he user\rquote s eye\rquote 
s is not obvious, but in darkness, the glow of the eyes can be seen as an eerie glimmering. Components: Common Reagents, Fugacious Air, Fugacious Fire, Extract of Basilisk Eye. Requires enchanted container. Harmful Side Effects: Extremely Toxic 81-00.
\par 
\tab {\ul Troche of Countermagick} (600 GC/Very Rare-24): Provides a +40 bonus to WP for Resist Magick tests. Components: Common Reagents, Fugacious Earth, Air, Fire, and Water, preserved Daemon Blood. Harmful Side Effects: Severe Mental Trauma 71-00.
\par 
\tab {\ul Potion of the [Specific] Were}
 (2000 GC/Very Rare-24): User is transformed over a period of 1d6+3 hours into a werecreature. Process is spectacularly painful; each hour during transformation, the user tests vs. Cool, or gains one Insanity Point. Duration of effect is 1d6 days. User can
not voluntarily return to normal form. Components: Common Reagents, Fugacious Earth, Air, Fire, and Water, assorted preserved tissues of the specific werecreature. Harmful Side Effects: Severe Mental Trauma 81-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Elixir of Noble Health}
 (1000 GC/Very Rare-20): Immediately restores user to perfect health, regardless of poison, disease, wounds, injuries, etc. Does not reduce Insanity Points, and does not restore MP. If administered within 10 rounds of death, may even revive the dead; Test 
vs. Toughness x 10 to revive dead victim. Components: Common Reagents, Fugacious Earth, Air, Fire, Water, Aethyr. Harmful Side Effects: Dependency 96-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Elixir of Life in Death} (?? GC/Not Available for Sale): Suspended animation. In sealed space (
often a coffin) user releases vapors of elixir. Body functions slow to a fraction of normal. Suspended animation ends when elixir effect ends (1-5d100 years, according to alchemist design), or when sealed space is disturbed (elixir vapors dissipate almost 
instantaneously). User often sets a servant or mechanism to awaken him. Preparation Time: A minimum of one month, with a Preparation Quality Score of 50; for each extra month spent in preparing the compound, add 10 points to the Preparation Quality Score. 
Components: Common Reagents, fresh dragon blood, anima mundi, true elements. Harmful Side Effects: Severe Mental Trauma 81-00.\par 
\tab {\ul Permiate of Demanifestation}
 (2000 GC/Very Rare-24): Permits user to slip in and out between the Material Realm and the Void at will. While in the Void, sometimes very interesting things happen. Wandering around while in the Void is a bad idea, but sometimes unavoidable. Folks who wa
nder off while in the Void may have a hard time finding their way back to the right place in the Mate
rial Realm. The Void and the Material Realm are not topologically in a one-to-one correspondence, meaning which wandering a few steps in the Void might put one in the middle of the ocean when returning to the Material Realm. Components: Common Reagents, ae
thyr salts, void salts, buckets of demon blood. Harmful Side Effects: Severe Mental Trauma 51-00.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 Sorcerous Scrolls}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab A scroll is a combination phonetic transcription and procedure manual in Arcane symbology for the casting of a sorcerous spell or rit
ual. Scrolls are prepared in such a way that the scroll itself provides the casting focus and components for the spell: that is, a modest, one-use Wizard rune is inscribed in the specially-treated parchment or paper, and the components are dissolved in sol
vent and used as inks for part of the inscription. To cast a spell or ritual, one need only read the scroll and provide the magickal power (MP) for the casting. Any character with the Arcane Language and Scroll Lore skills (sorceror or non-sorceror) can ca
st a spell or ritual from a scroll. Casting a spell or ritual from a scroll takes much longer than a normal casting, but a scroll permits a sorceror, or non-sorceror, to cast spells he does not know.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 Scroll Rating}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
The quality of a scroll depends on many factors: the intelligence and skill of the preparing sorceror, the quality of the components, the time and care with which the scroll is prepared, and so forth. Each scroll has a Quality Rating, which is the chance 
of correctly casting the spell or ritual. After a scroll is read, the GM checks against the scroll\rquote s Quality Rating to see if the casting was successful.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 Preparing a Scroll}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Any sorceror who reads and writes Arcane can prepare scrolls for spells and rituals he knows. Preparing a scroll requires a minimum of a certain number of days to prepare, as indicated below on the following table:\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tx720\tqc\tx6120 \tab {\ul Type of Scroll}\tab {\ul Minimum Days to Prepare}\par 
\tab Petty Spell or Ritual\tab 1\par 
\tab 1st Rank Spell or Ritual\tab 2\par 
\tab 2nd Rank Spell or Ritual\tab 3\par 
\tab 3rd Rank Spell or Ritual\tab 4\par 
\tab 4th Rank Spell or Ritual\tab 5\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\tab A scroll prepared in the minimum number of days has a Quality Rating equal to the sorceror\rquote 
s Intelligence. For each additional day spent in preparation, the scroll's Quality Rating may be increased by 10 points to a maximum of 97%. Scrolls with ratings higher than 97% are very rare, i.e., GM specials.\par 
\tab A sorceror can copy a spell or ritual he doesn\rquote t know, but he does not properly appreciate the subtle details of pronunciation and timing recorded in the original. Thus, his scroll is
 generally unreliable, often disastrously so. Roll 4d6 for such a scroll\rquote s Quality Rating. There is no bonus for additional days spent, since ignorance, not care, is the limiting factor in the scroll\rquote s quality.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 Purchasing Scrolls}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
Scrolls may sometimes be available for sale to guild members from guild collections, or may be available from private sorcerors and professional scrollmakers, or may be available on the black market. Prices vary according to the apparent quality of the sc
roll and the rank of the spell or ritual inscribed; however, in a very large settlement, prices for a scroll with a Quality Rating of 70 from a Guild-approved source might be as follows:\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tx720\tqc\tx5760 \tab {\ul Type of Scroll}\tab {\ul Cost}\par 
\tab Petty Spell or Ritual\tab 80 GC\par 
\tab 1st Rank Spell or Ritual\tab 120 GC\par 
\tab 2nd Rank Spell or Ritual\tab 180 GC\par 
\tab 3rd Rank Spell or Ritual\tab 280 GC\par 
\tab 4th Rank Spell or Ritual\tab 400 GC\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\tab Scrolls from private and black market sources might be one-tenth to four times as great, according to the quality of the scroll and current market conditions.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 Casting a Spell or Ritual from a Scroll}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A sorceror with the Scroll Lore skill can cast any spell or ritual inscribed on a scroll. A spell or ritual of the sorceror\rquote 
s Mastery Level or lower is cast at no penalty. A spell or ritual of a higher Mastery Level may be cast at a -20 penalty per level to the scroll\rquote 
s Quality Rating (i.e., a 2nd level Elementalist may cast a 4th level Daemonology spell from a scroll at a -40 penalty to the scroll's Quality Rating).\par 
\tab A non-sorceror with Arcane Language and Scro
ll Lore skills can also attempt to cast any spell or ritual from a scroll. A petty spell or ritual is cast at no penalty. Spells or rituals of higher Mastery Levels may be cast at a -20 penalty per level to the scroll\rquote 
s Quality Rating (i.e., a Tomb Robber who reads Arcane Language may cast a 4th level Daemonology spell from a scroll at a -80 penalty to the scroll's Quality Rating). \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Time Required\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Casting spells and rituals from scrolls is a painstaking and time-consuming procedure, taking far more time th
an a normal casting. Scrolls are designed with mental checklists and failsafes so that sorcerors can easily anticipate potential casting errors, permitting the sorceror to abort the reading and start over when he botches something. Thus, it may take a long
 time, with a lot of starts and stops, but one can eventually cast any spell at his caster level.\par 
\tab {\ul Sorcerors}: Casting a spell from a scroll takes 2D6+6 rounds. Casting a ritual from a scroll takes 4d6+12 rounds. \par 
\tab {\ul Non-Sorcerors}: Casting a spell from a scroll takes 2D6+6 minutes. Casting a ritual from a scroll takes 4d6+12 minutes. \par 
\tab The magic points to fuel the spell must be paid by the reader of the scroll.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Testing for Successful Casting\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab After the scroll has been read, test against the scroll\rquote s Quality Rating, modified by any penalties or bonuses, to determine whether the casting has been successful. The GM rolls 1d100 secretly.\par 
\tab A roll equal to or less than the Quality Rating means the scroll has been read correctly, and the spell or ritual takes effect normally.\par 
\tab A roll greater than the rating, but not more than 30 points over the rating, means the reading of the scroll has been inaccurate in some detail, and the desired effect is not achieved. The reader may try again.\par 
\tab 
A roll greater than the rating, but more than 30 over the rating, means the scroll is fundamentally flawed, and the spell or ritual cannot be cast from it: the scroll is worthless. Sorcerors will immediately recognize the scroll as flawed and worthless. N
on-sorcerors are insufficiently learned to recognize the scroll as flawed and worthless, and may try again to read the scroll, unaware that no matter how many times he tries, the scroll will never work.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 Learning Spells and Rituals from Scrolls\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
A sorceror can also learn a spell from a scroll. Without the benefits of personal coaching on procedure, pronunciation, and mental focusing, it takes twice as long as learning a spell with a teacher (2 weeks + 2 weeks/spell level). The EP cost is the same
 as for learning a spell from a teacher.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 Judging the Quality of Purchased, Stolen, or Discovered Scrolls}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
Characters cannot be sure of the Quality Ratings of scrolls they have purchased, stolen, or discovered. Really awful ones (Quality Ratings of 40 or less) are really cheap and easy to make. Really good ones (97% of success) are rather expensive. Characters
 with the Scroll Lore skill may test against Intelligence to judge a scroll's Quality Rating. The GM should roll 1d100 secretly. If the test is successful, the Character knows whether the scroll\rquote 
s Quality Rating is Awful (01-40 rating), Average (41-60 rating), Good (61-80 rating) or Excellent (81-97 rating). Characters without the Scroll lore skill have no chance of evaluating a scroll\rquote s quality.\par 
}