{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Character Profile;}{\s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext2 Chapter heading;}{\s3\qj \b\f16 
\sbasedon0\snext3 Section Heading;}{\s4\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext4 GM Notes;}{\s5\qj \f16 \sbasedon0\snext5 Subsection Heading;}}{\info}\widowctrl\ftnbj\pgnstart0\fracwidth {\*\nextfile perv.gov:Compounds and Scrolls}\sectd 
\sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain \s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 {Realms of Sorcery}\tab {Sorcerous} Artifacts\tab Page {{\*\bkmkstart LINK1}\chpgn {\*\bkmkend LINK1}}\par 
}\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 Chapter 5\: {Sorcerous Artifacts}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab The skilled application of enchantment rituals to a specially-crafted and prepared object successfully engraved with runes of power produces an arcane device known as a Sorcerous Artifact. \~Such arcane devices have two primary uses: 1. 
to permit non-sorcerors the ability to produce magickal effects, and 2. to enhance the speed, variety, and complexity of magickal effects a sorceror can produce.\par 
{\v \par 
\tab [Actuations/charges are awkward. Need some way to remove sorcerous devices by wear-out or dysfunction. Player should know rough parameters of reliability, but random uncertainty is good too. For example, all artifacts have an unreliability score. 
A roll within range means the artifact has failed forever, and must be re-enchanted. The unreliability score increases by one with each use. A roll of 00 means the unreliability score is reduced by 1d100 points.]\par 
}\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 .{\v c2.}Using Sorcerous Artifacts\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sorcerous Artifacts must generally be linked to a user\rquote s Spirit by a sorceror using the {\i psychelink artifact} ritual. (Exceptions are noted in the descriptions below.) This creates an aethyrial
 link between the user and the artifact, permitting the user to control and power the device with his own Magick Points.\par 
\tab {\ul Psychelinking}: When an artifact is psychelinked with a user, it is revealed to the Sense Magick skill or {\i detect magick} spell as active magick. If not psychelinked, an artifact does not detect as magick. 
(Psychelinking activates the runes, and makes the aethyrial field active.)\par 
\tab {\ul Password Protection}: Sorcerous artifacts with password protection require that the user speak the password to activate their powers. If the password is not known, the artifacts cannot be activated. (See \ldblquote Protection\rdblquote ,
 page ??, and \ldblquote Identifying Sorcerous Artifacts\rdblquote , page ??)\par 
\tab {\ul Reliability}: Sorcerous artifacts vary in their reliability according to the skill of their creators and the frequency of their use. Sorcerous artifacts therefore have a Reliability Score. 
Each time the artifact is activated, the user must test vs. Reliability to determine whether the artifact activates properly, or whether the artifact fails. To test vs. an artifact\rquote s Reliability score, roll 1d100 and compare it to the artifact
\rquote s Reliability score. If the roll is less than or equal to the Reliability Score, the artifact activates normally. Immediately reduce the artifact\rquote s Reliability Score by one point after each successful use. Repeated use of artifact\rquote 
s gradually reduces their reliability.\par 
\tab If the 1d100 roll is an 01, the artifact proves to be even more reliable than expected. Do not reduce the artifact\rquote s Reliability Score by one point; instead, roll 1d100 immediately and add the result to the artifact\rquote 
s current Reliability score. Some artifacts unusually durable and reliable, occasionally outlasting their creator\rquote s greatest expectations, sometimes surviving centuries of frequent use.\par 
\tab If the roll is greater than the Reliability Score, then the artifact has failed. If an artifact fails a Reliability test, roll on the Artifact Failure Table below to determine the results. 
An artifact which has failed is no longer enchanted, but restoring the enchantment on a failed artifact is a relatively simple matter if the artifact is not damaged, and if the praxis for the artifact is available. (See \ldblquote Enchantments\rdblquote ,
 page ??.)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qc \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qc \b\f16 Artifact Failure Table}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab {\ul D100 roll}\tab {\ul Description of Artifact Failure}\par 
\tab 01-50:\tab The artifact\rquote s enchantment activates normally, but after activating, the enchantment fades and dissipates immediately. The artifact no longer bears this enchantment.\par 
\tab 51-80:\tab The artifact\rquote s enchantment immediately fades and dissipates. The MP used to activate the enchantment are lost, but the enchantment does not activate for this use, and will never activate again. 
The artifact no longer bears this enchantment.\par 
\tab 81-95:\tab The artifact\rquote s enchantment undergoes a sudden destructive discharge. The powerlinked user loses 2d4 MP, in addition to the MP spent to activate the artifact
, but the enchantment does not activate for this use, and will never activate again. The artifact no longer bears this enchantment.\par 
\tab 96-00:\tab The artifact's enchantment undergoes a catastrophic discharge. The powerlinked user and all beings within 6 yards lose 4d4 MP {\b and} 1d8 wounds, in addition to the MP spent to activate the ar
tifact, but the enchantment does not activate for this use, and will never activate again. The artifact no longer bears this enchantment.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab GM Note: A creator knows the Reliability Score of artifacts he creates. A powerlinked user knows the Reliability Score of artifacts he is powerlinked with. Otherwise, the Reliability of an artifact may not be known. 
Therefore, do not reveal the Reliability Score of an artifact to a player until his character has powerlinked with the artifact, unless the character was the creator of the artifact.\par 
\tab For brand-new artifacts, use the creator}{\fs18 \rquote }s Intelligence Score, or roll 2d10+50,{ to determine an artifact}{\fs18 \rquote }{s Reliability Score. }Determine{ other artifacts}\rquote { reliability scores at your discretion. Note that 
little-used artifacts of recent creation should have Reliability Scores of 50-70, while exceptionally rare, ancient, or heavily-used artifacts might have Reliability Scores as low as 02.\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Activating an Artifact\rquote s Magickal Effects}: Artifacts must generally be in contact with the flesh of the psychelinked user to permit activation. Each activation usually draws magick
al energy (MPs) from the user to power the artifact's magick effects. If the artifact has no password protection, the user simply concentrates on the artifact to activate it. 
If the artifact is password-protected, the password must be uttered aloud to activate the device.\par 
\tab {\ul MP Cost and Duration}: Lesser Artifacts usually cost 1 MP per use, with a duration of effect of 2d6+6 rounds. Exceptions are noted in the descriptions below.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Identifying Sorcerous Artifacts}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Characters with the Identify Sorcerous Artifact skill may have some chance of identifying an unknown sorcerous artifact and its powers. See \ldblquote Skills\rdblquote , page ??.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Purchasing Sorcerous Artifacts}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A list of sorcerors and dealers licensed by the sovereign to sell sorcerous artifacts should be available at guild halls (or magick colleges, if any) in towns with populations over 2000. In rural areas, licensed 
guildmembers and dealers are hard to find, and may best be sought through roadwardens, reputable citizens, or agents of the sovereign. \par 
\tab The sale of sorcerous artifacts is strictly regulated by the guilds according to charters granted by the sovereigns of most Old World nations. In times of peace, lesser artifacts are typically available to citizens of good reputation. 
In times of war, lesser artifacts may only be sold to the State for the use of rulers, nobles, military leaders, and special military units. However, lesser artifacts may still 
be available through less reputable dealers like pawnbrokers, fences, and other black marketers, though their cost and quality vary greatly, depending on the reliability of the source.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 Artifact Prices\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The price of an artifact is the cost of the object before it is enchanted plus a cost for each enchantment the artifact bears. For example, a dagger costs 3 GC. An enchantment to increase damage by one point costs 50 GC. An 
dagger so enchanted would cost 53 GC.\par 
\tab These prices represent what a third or fourth level sorceror would charge his sovereign to produce a given sorcerous artifact. The actual cost of creating a sorcerous artifact is another thing altogether, typically 1/10 of the price listed. 
Further, on the black market, sorcerous artifacts may be a good deal cheaper, perhaps 1/5 the listed price. Of course, their reliability may be suspect, and there may be hidden flaws in the artifact\rquote s design, or vengeful pursuer
s seeking the murderer of its rightful owner.\par 
\tab Note that the materials of a sorcerous artifact bearing an enchantment need not be particularly precious, nor the workmanship fine. 
However, Elven and Dwarven traditions demand that enchantments only be placed upon items of precious materials and fine craftsmanship, and objects bearing lesser enchantments may be worth five, ten, fifty, or a hundred times more costly than indicated by t
he costs for goods listed in {\ul WFRP} under \ldblquote Goods and Services\rdblquote , pages 292-297. Thus, the costs listed in this chapter indicate the minimum costs possible, and imply no limits on greater costs as determined at the GM's discretion.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Magickal Items for Rookies and Poor Adventurers\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Early in their careers few adventurers have the coin to purchase magick items. Typically a character\rquote s first magickal treasures come from sources like these:\par 
\tab {\ul Loot from Adventuring}: For example, items recovered from bandits, found in tombs, or pilfered from the lab of an evil necromancer. This is the standard way to get neat little magickal treasures into the hands of beginning PCs.\par 
\tab {\ul Loans, Gifts, or Rewards from Patrons and Employers}: 
When hiring inexperienced and impoverished adventurers for a dangerous mission, more reputable employers (agents of the sovereign, guilds, nobles, merchant families, cults, etc.) recognize an obligation to outfit their hirelings with magick
al resources that will improve chances that a mission will be accomplished. Less reputable employers (underworld figures, Robin Hood types, and greedy adventurers) also recognize that outfitting hirelings with magickal gear may be in their best interests.
 Magickal items are also more attractive than their cash value when it comes to payment for services, since many sorcerous artifacts are hard to find, and sometimes are not available to the unsavory types of PCs who make the best adventurers. 
For example, a patron might loan a PC an amulet of magick detection, and upon successful completion of the mission, award the PC the amulet in payment.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Putting Sorcery in the Hands of Non-Spellcasters\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Folks who play FRP games like to play with magick. Characters who can\rquote t cast spells will be ever-so-grateful if you give them some nice magick to play with. 
And how do non-spellcasting player characters get to play with magick?\par 
\tab Magickal devices, scrolls, and alchemical compounds. That\rquote s the ticket. Vorpal swords, hoodoo amulets, potions of temporary immortality, and boobytrapped fireball wands.\par 
\tab It\rquote s not fair to give too much magickal muscle to the no-spells types; if they want magickal power, they ought to play sorcerors or priests. But a little magick goes a long way in satisfying the itch for fantasy.\par 
\tab The secret is keeping lots of colorful, imaginative, but relatively weak magickal bits circulating in your campaign for the amusement of the ignorant layman. Here are a few tips introducing magick items that satisfy the lust for magick but don
\rquote t unbalance your campaign.\par 
\tab \bullet  Keep them weak. The spellcasters deserve to get top billing for magickal fireworks. Items that have a tiny but noticeable effect in combat are best.\par 
\tab \bullet  Make them less reliable. The more unreliable the enchantment on a PC\rquote s artifact, the more he\rquote ll value each use. Widgets that work forever get taken for granted. 
Alchemical compounds and scrolls are ideal because once you use them, they\rquote re gone. Sorcerous artifacts with low-to-moderate Reliability Scores (i.e.
, 20-50) are likely to fail, and will therefore be used sparingly, with dramatic gratitude for each effective use.\par 
\tab \bullet  Be lavish with colorful detail and niggardly with effective powers. Magick should be wild, weird, and wonderful. Be stingy with powerful effects, but lay on the fancy names, histories, and odd quirks with a trowel.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {Sorcerous Artifact Descriptions}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Notes on Examples of Artifacts: The examples below are intended as models to show GMs how to design and record essential and colorful information concerning sorcerous artifacts. GMs must determine the following features of sorcerous artifacts 
for game purposes:\par 
\tab {\ul Enchantments}: A list of all the enchantments the artifact bears.\par 
\tab {\ul Inscription}: The inscription always bears the runes of the enchantments on the artifact, which may be read by those with the Rune Lore skill. 
An inscription may also bear the name of the creator, a description in arcane and/or mundane languages of the enchantments the artifact bears, and the password necessary to activate the artifact, if any. (See below under \ldblquote Inscriptions\rdblquote 
, page ??.)\par 
\tab {\ul Password}: The password to activate the artifact, which may or may not be indicated in the inscription.\par 
\tab {\ul Reliability Score}: For brand-new artifacts, use the creator\rquote s Intelligence Score, or roll 2d10+50, to determine an artifact\rquote s Reliability Score. For other artifacts, determine their reliability scores at your discretion. (See 
\ldblquote Reliability Score\rdblquote , above.)\par 
\tab In addition, the following information can be useful and intriguing.\par 
\tab {\ul Name}: Traditionally many sorcerous artifacts are given special names by their creators, names which are supposed to hint at the character and purpose of the artifact and its creator.\par 
\tab {\ul Description}: A physical description of the artifact, including any remarkable details of the composition or design of the artifact.\par 
\tab {\ul History}: A short history of the creator and bearers of the artifact, and the role they may have played in events great and small.\par 
\tab Other information may be useful as well. For example, for spirit enchantments, the MP of a lesser spirit or the profile of a greater spirit bound into the artifact must be recorded. 
See the examples throughout this chapter for other detailed that might be recorded in an artifact description.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Lesser Artifact Descriptions}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Lesser Artifacts are listed by type of enchantment (i.e., Ample Smiting +1). In parentheses follow the Cost/Craft Class and the availability of the artifact.\par 
\tab The Cost/Craft Class indicates how expensive an enchantment on such an artifact might be if one were found available for sale. To determine the typical cost of an enchantment, multiply the enchantment\rquote s Cost/Craft Class by 50 GC. 
For example, a lesser talisman listed with an enchantment of \ldblquote Ward vs. Fear (1/Rare)\rdblquote  indicates an amulet enchantment against Fear costing 50 GC (50 GC multiplied by 1), while a lesser armor listed with an enchantment of Protection 
+1 (8/Very Rare-20) indicates an armor enchantment adding one armor point costing 400 GC (50 GC multiplied by 8).\par 
\tab The Cost/Craft Class indicates the cost of the enchantment, not the artifact. To find the cost of an enchanted artifact, add the cost of the item enchanted and the cost of the enchantment. 
For example, a mail coat with an armor enchantment of Protection +1 (8/Very Rare-20) might cost 515 GC (115 GC for the mail coat and 400 GC for the enchantment).\par 
\tab The availability indicates how likely it would be to find such an enchanted artifact for sale in a community of a given population. The availability is indicated in terms of the \ldblquote Goods and Services Availability Chart\rdblquote  ({\ul WFRP}
, page 292). A negative modifier following the availability indicates exceptionally limited availability. For example, a lesser talisman listed with an enchantment of \ldblquote Ward vs. Fear (1/Rare)\rdblquote  
indicates an amulet enchanted against Fear that is in rare supply. Note that with the negative modifiers, the chance of finding a given enchanted item may be reduced to zero.\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab GM Note: Below are listed most of the Lesser Artifact enchantments recommended for use in WFRP campaigns. GMs are invited to design their own Lesser Artifact enchantments, but inexperienced GMs should be very ca
reful about introducing new sorcerous artifacts into their campaigns until they've learned how powerful magick devices can overshadow the other important elements of a fantasy roleplaying campaign. 
Our advice is to stick to the lesser artifacts listed here in the beginning, then add one homegrown artifact at a time to get the feel of how they may affect play. Experienced GMs know how magick
 items can unbalance the delicate interplay of game mechanics and session play, and are invited to design lesser artifacts at their own risk.\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Lesser Weapons}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Lesser Weapon is a weapon bearing one or more of the following enchantments. Certain types of weapons usually do not receive certain enchantments; for example, seldom will a bow receive an enchantment of Mighty Smiting +2.
\par 
\tab Most weapon enchantments are effective only when applied to the missile, not the device that fires the missile. That is, the arrow or crossbow bolt is enchanted with Foebane or Ample Smiting +1, not the bow or crossbow. Enchanting a missile
 is generally not cost effective, and the few enchantments designed expressly for missile-firing weapons are expensive and of limited effectiveness.\par 
\tab Common features of all Lesser Weapons:\par 
\tab 1. Lesser Weapons wound creatures described as requiring magickal weapons or weapons treated with True Silver to wound them.\par 
\tab 2. Most weapon magickal effects may not be resisted with tests vs. WP. Exceptions are noted below.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Lesser Weapon Descriptions\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Ample Smiting +1 (1/Rare): Pulses of aethyrial energy are added to the user\rquote s thrust, causing each successful attack to cause one additional point of damage.\par 
\tab Mighty Smiting +2 (2/Very Rare): Pulses of aethyrial energy are added to the user\rquote s thrust, causing each successful attack to cause two additional points of damage.\par 
\tab Prodigious Smiting +3 (4/Very Rare-20): Pulses of aethyrial energy are added to the user\rquote s thrust, causing each successful attack to cause three additional points of damage.\par 
\tab Paramount Smiting +4 (8/Very Rare-24): Pulses of aethyrial energy are added to the user\rquote s thrust, causing each successful attack to cause four additional points of damage.\par 
\tab Manifold Blows (2/Very Rare-10): Pulses of aethyrial energy propel the user's arm, permitting an additional attack each round. Works only for melee attacks, not for missile attacks.\par 
\tab One True Blow (2/Very Rare-10): A single pulse of aethyrial energy is added to a single thrust of the user, causing one attack, if successful, to cause an additional 2d6 wounds. This effect has a duration of only one round.\par 
\tab Elemental Attraction (1/Rare): The substance of the weapon is attracted to the substance of the target, increasing the attacker\rquote s chance to hit by +10. Works only for melee attacks, not for missile attacks.\par 
\tab Foebane: Alchemically refined essences of a species are combined with substances toxic to the species and bound into the weapon's enchantment, causing twice normal damage to creatures of that species. \par 
\tab \bullet  (Common Species) Foebane (1/Rare): Common species include human, dwarf, elf, halfling, orc, goblin, bear, boar, wolf, and other animals. 
Some foebane weapons are in plentiful supply in the Old World, particularly Goblin, Orc, and Human Foebane, which are commonly purchased by sovereigns for outfitting the military in times of war. \par 
\tab \bullet  (Monstrous Animal) Foebane (2/Very Rare): Monstrous species include amoebae, bog octopi, giant varieties of common species, and other uncommon, large, exceptionally dangerous but non-magickal other animals.\par 
\tab \bullet  (Monstrous Sentient) Foebane (4/Very Rare-10): 
Monstrous Sentient species include giants, chimera, doppleganger, dragon, wyvern, pegasus, manticore, harpy, unicorn, zoat, skaven, lizardmen, troglodytes, ogres, trolls, fimir, and other intelligent creatures with legendary or magickal powers.\par 
\tab \bullet  (Magickal Being) Foebane (8/Very Rare-10): Magickal being species include elementals, undead, daemons, werecreatures, Chaos spawn and Chaos servants, other intelligent creatures with legendary or magickal powers. 
Despite their high cost, these items are in great demand.\par 
\tab Piercing Flame (2/Very Rare): A fire node is summoned to the weapon, causing standard fire damage in addition to normal damage only on the first successful hit. The duration of the magick
al effect is 2d6+6 rounds, but the fire node is transferred to the target on a successful hit; fire damage is caused only once per use. May be used with melee weapons and missiles.\par 
\tab Illumination (1/Rare): An air node summoned to an object with this enchantment yields light as a lantern for 2d6+6 rounds. Typ
ically used on missiles, but may also be placed on weapons, armor, or other objects to serve as an emergency source of illumination.\par 
\tab Purulent Gall (2/Very Rare-20): The weapon causes an infected wound (see {\ul WFRP}, page 83) with each successful attack.\par 
\tab Despair (2/Very Rare-20): The spirit of the first victim successfully wounded with this weapon is filled with despair. Test vs. WP. If the test fails, the victim surrenders and casts himself on the mercy of the attacker. 
If the test succeeds, the victim fights to the death, regardless of odds or other circumstances. Note: a successful hit is insufficient; the victim must actually lose at least one wound point for this enchantment to take effect. 
Only one victim per activation is affected.\par 
\tab Stun (2/Very Rare): The enchantment shocks the spirit of a successfully wounded victim. The victim can choose no action but parry, or may flee for 1d6 rounds.\par 
\tab Excellent Defense (1/Very Rare): Aethyrial energy aids the user in parrying. All parry attempts are at a +10 bonus for the duration of the effect.\par 
\tab Desperate Defense (2/Very Rare): The user focuses all the enchantment\rquote s aethyrial energy on a single parry. The user is +50 to that parry, and 3d6 damage is stopped if successful. 
The duration of the effect is 2d6+6 rounds; once the parry is used, the effect ends.\par 
\tab Heroic Inspiration (1/Rare): The user's spirit is excited into an irrationally confident and bloodthirsty state. The user becomes subject to the Frenzy rules (see {\ul WFRP}, page 69) for the duration of the effect.\par 
\tab Strongbow (2/Very Rare-10): 
This enchantment makes the wooden member of a bow or crossbow more flexible as it is drawn, then more rigid as it is released, increasing the Effective Strength of the bow or crossbow by +1 and eliminating the -10 modifier for a target at long range. 
Targets at extreme range are still at -20 to hit. A greatly prized but expensive and subtle enchantment.\par 
\par 
{\ul Example of a Lesser Weapon}\par 
\tab Name: \ldblquote Alexa II\rdblquote \par 
\tab Description: longsword of above average workmanship, worth 30 GC as a mundane sword, detailed inscription on blade.\par 
\tab History: Made for Captain Diehl Lang, Kemperbad Guard, in IC 2492 by Sorceror 3rd Rank Kaspar Hauser of Kemperbad. Named for Lang\rquote s wife, Alexa. Left to Kemperbad Guard Armory when Lang died without issue.\par 
\tab Enchantments: Ample Smiting\par 
\tab Inscription: Password and description of enchantment in Modern Arcane and Reikspiel.\par 
\tab Password: \ldblquote Alexa\rdblquote \par 
\tab Reliability Score: 72\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Lesser Armors}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Lesser Armor is a shield or piece of armor enchanted to resist punctures and battering while deflecting the energy of attacks. 
Shields may also receive the Excellent Defense and Desperate Defense enchantments listed above under Lesser Weapons.\par 
\tab A lesser armor enchantment confers 1 extra armor point (see {\ul WFRP}, p. 121) to the enchanted item of armor. Lesser enchantments cannot increase the protection of armor by more than 1 extra armor point. 
For example, casting an enchant lesser armor ritual upon an item of armor bearing a lesser armor enchantment does {\b not}
 increase the armor's protection by 2 armor points, since lesser enchantments may not increase the protection of armor by more than one armor point.\par 
\tab Protection +1 (8/Very Rare): adds +1 armor point to an item of armor. 
The following items of armor may receive Lesser Armor Enchantments: mail coif, helmet, mail shirt, sleeved mail shirt, mail coat, sleeved mail coat, leggings (plate or mail, pair), arm bracers (plate or mail, pair), breastplate, shield, leather jerkin, lea
ther jack, leather coif. Leather armor is increased from 0/1 armor points to +2 armor points by a Protection +1 enchantment. Leather armor is not substantial enough to bear a Protection +2 or Protection +3 enchantment.\par 
\par 
{\ul Example of a Lesser Armor\par 
}\tab Name: unnamed\par 
\tab Description: battered iron helmet.\par 
\tab History: discovered among goblin booty in southern World's End region; owner and age unknown; creator Ulf Robineete (unknown Tilean sorceror); estimated age: late 21st Century.\par 
\tab Enchantments: Protection+1\par 
\tab Inscription: Describes password and enchantment in Modern Arcane and Tilean.\par 
\tab Password: \ldblquote Sommossa\rdblquote \par 
\tab Reliability Score: 43\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Lesser Rune Rings}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Lesser Rune Ring is a Lesser Artifact which contains magick effects of spells and rituals to be released at the user\rquote s convenience. 
The enchantment binding rituals are cast simultaneously with the spells or rituals to be stored.\par 
\tab These devices must be in contact with flesh to be activated. The user concentrates, and goes into a trance for one round, during which the rune ring does all the work of getting the magick spell or ritual underway. 
In the following round the spell or ritual takes effect normally, as indicated in the spell or ritual description.\par 
\tab Rings are most convenient, but other hand-held objects (weapons, shields, staves, for example) may also bear one of these enchantments. (For example, folks familiar with The Other Game\'aa
 will probably prefer a wand for their fireball Rune Ring enchantment, just for sentimental reasons.) One need not be a sorceror to activate a lesser rune ring, but, since the range of many spell and ritual effects is based on the user\rquote 
s BMP, sorcerors can often use them most effectively. (However, whenever a spell description refers to the level of the caster, the level is assumed to be Level 3, the level at which sorcerors can enchant lesser artifacts, unless otherwise stated.)\par 
\tab The minimum cost of a ring to bear a Lesser Rune Ring enchantment is 1 GC; the materials of a ring, or any other object bearing this enchantment, need not be particularly precious, nor the workmanship fine. 
However, Elven and Dwarven traditions demand that enchantments only be placed upon items of precious materials and fine craftsmanship, and rings bearing Lesser Rune Ring enchantments may be worth hundreds, even thousands of gold coins.\par 
\tab Lesser Rune Rings are commonly available only for the following Petty and First Level spells and rituals, and may bear only one enchantment (i.e., only one type of spell or ritual per ring). 
If a Petty or First level spell or ritual is not listed here, it is because the enchantment is obscure, or expensive, or not amenable to adaptation for artifact casting. 
For Second, Third, and Fourth Level castings, or artifacts bearing more than one enchantment, a Greater Artifact is required.\par 
\par 
Petty Spells and Rituals\par 
\tab Detect Magick (1/Rare)\par 
\tab Discorporate Flesh (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Distract Awareness (1/Rare)\par 
\tab Distract Memory (1/Rare)\par 
\tab Bond Elements (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Perceive Spirit (1/Rare)\par 
\tab Deepsleep (1/Rare)\par 
\tab Summon Elemental Node (4/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab Toughen Flesh (1/Rare)\par 
\tab Vaporbloom (2/Very Rare)\par 
\par 
Battle Spells and Rituals\par 
\tab Accelerate Flesh (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Accelerate Healing (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Command (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Spiritshield (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Fireball (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Farsleep (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Toxicbloom (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Wildwind (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Excite Enmity (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Flight Minor (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Harmonize Minds (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab PainMind (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Musclemight (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\par 
Elemental Spells and Rituals\par 
\tab Assault of Stone (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Blinding Light (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Breathe Under Water (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Burrow (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab WaterWalk (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Hand of Fire (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Magick Light (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Muffle Sound (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Summon Least Elemental (4/Very Rare-20)\par 
\par 
Illusion Spells and Rituals\par 
\tab Darkscreen (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Divert Attention (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Disrupt Image (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Read Sound (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Mask (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Hallucination (2/Very Rare)\par 
\tab Muddle Mind (2/Very Rare)\par 
\par 
Daemon Spells and Rituals\par 
\tab Hold Daemon (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Daemonfire (8/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab Banish Lesser Daemon (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Summon Imp (8/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab Summon Steed (8/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab Warning! Pentagrams and other thaumaturgic forms cannot be produced by lesser rune enchantments. The daemon summoning rings above will only summon one speci{fic daemon addressed by his use}name (usually indicated in the inscription, for those {who}
 read {Daemon Tongue}). Unless a pentagram is provided by other means, one who summons a daemon with such a ring receives the standard -50 penalty to Control tests for summonings without {the }aid of a pentagram.\par 
\par 
Necromantic Spells and Rituals\par 
\tab Disrupt Animation (4/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab Fountain of Blood (8/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab Gash Spirit Minor (8/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab Spiritward (8/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab Seal Wound (8/Very Rare-20)\par 
\par 
{\ul Example of a Lesser Rune Ring}\par 
\tab Name: \ldblquote Wutschnaubend\rdblquote \par 
\tab Description: Silver pinkie ring of superior craftsmanship, worth 200 GC as a mundane ring; inscription on inner surface in Arcane and Reikspiel.\par 
\tab History: Made by Boris the Hasty of Nuln; lost, along with Boris\rquote  hand, at the Battle of the Second Ford against Chaos forces in IC 2479.\par 
\tab Enchantments: Hand of Fire\par 
\tab Inscription: Describes password and enchantment.\par 
\tab Password: \ldblquote H\'9allenfeuer\rdblquote \par 
\tab Reliability Score: 64\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Lesser Talismans}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Lesser Talisman provides protection against certain magickal effects, particularly those which threaten the spirit and mind of a victim.\par 
\tab Unlike other Lesser Artifacts, Lesser Talismans may be activated in two different modes. The first mode, standby, makes the talisman active, but does not trigger the protective magick effect. The protective magick
 effect is thereafter automatically triggered the first time the condition the talisman protects against is encountered. 
When the condition the talisman protects against is encountered, the talisman automatically draws MP from the user to activate its protection mode. Activating a Lesser Talisman\rquote s standby mode does not reduce the talisman\rquote s Reliability Score.
 Activating the standby modes costs one MP and lasts 1d6+3 hours. \par 
\tab The second mode, protection, protects the user against an actual magickal threat. Activation of the protection mode does reduce the talisman\rquote s Reliability Score by one point. Activating the protection mode costs one MP, and last 2d6+6 rounds.
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 Lesser Talisman Enchantments\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Strengthened Will (2/Very Rare): Confers a +10 bonus to tests vs. WP to resist magickal effects whenever the user is otherwise entitled to a test vs. WP to resist a magick effect.\par 
\tab Indomitable Will (8/Very Rare-20): Confers a +30 bonus to tests vs. WP to resist the magickal effects whenever the user is otherwise entitled to a test vs. WP to resist a magick effect. 
Activation on protection mode costs two MP, and lasts only 1d6+3 rounds.\par 
\tab Resist Poison (2/Very Rare): Confers a +20 bonus to tests vs. Toughness to resist the effects of toxins and animal venom.\par 
\tab Resist Disease (2/Very Rare): Confers a +20 bonus to tests vs. Toughness to resist the effects of disease.\par 
\tab Ward vs. Draining (2/Very Rare): Confers a test vs. WP to resist the paralyzing attack of spectres.\par 
\tab Ward vs. Paralysis (2/Very Rare): Confers a test vs. WP to resist the Strength and MP-draining attacks of wights and wraiths.\par 
\tab Ward vs. Infection (1/Rare): Confers a +40 bonus to tests vs. Toughness to resist the effects of infected wounds.\par 
\tab Ward vs. Fear (1/Rare): Confers a +20 bonus to tests vs. Cool to resist the effects of fear or terror.\par 
\tab Ward vs. Derangement (2/Very Rare): Confers a test vs. Cool at a +50 bonus to avoid receiving insanity points whenever the user might receive an insanity point as a result of a critical hit, Terror, deleriants, or spell or ritual effects. (See {\ul 
WFRP}, p. 83.)\par 
\tab Ward vs. (Specific Toxin) (2/Very Rare): Confers a +50 bonus to tests vs. Toughness to resist the effects of a specific toxin.\par 
\tab Ward vs. (Specific Animal Venom) (2/Very Rare): Confers a +50 bonus to tests vs. Toughness to resist the effects of a specific animal venom.\par 
\tab Ward vs. (Specific Deleriant) (2/Very Rare): Confers a +50 bonus to tests vs. Toughness to resist the effects of a specific deleriant.\par 
\tab Ward vs. Spell: Lesser Talismans are available to provide protection against the following spells. Each of these talismans confers a +50 bonus to tests vs. WP to resist the specified spell effects. 
Protection vs. spells and rituals not listed below may require a Greater Enchantment, or may be impossible to design, either because talismans cannot protect against the physical effects of most spell and ritual effect
s, or because of some other complicated technical reasons (like the GM really doesn\rquote t want such-and-such a talisman in his campaign).\par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Distract Awareness (1/Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Distract Memory (1/Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Deepsleep (1/Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Command (2/Very Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Excite Enmity (2/Very Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Harmonize Minds (2/Very Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist PainMind (2/Very Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Farsleep (2/Very Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Divert Attention (2/Very Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Read Sound (2/Very Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Hallucination (2/Very Rare) \par 
\tab \bullet  Resist Muddle Mind (2/Very Rare) \par 
\par 
{\ul Example of a Lesser Talisman}\par 
\tab Name: unnamed\par 
\tab Description: Undecorated steel amulet; likeness of Grand Duke Gustav von Kreiglitz of Talabecland on front; inscription on reverse surface in Arcane and Reikspiel.\par 
\tab History: Possession of the Grand Duke, one of 7 made by Mattheus of Altdorf for the Duke's own use, and for the use of his lieutenants, agents, and guard.\par 
\tab Enchantments: Resist Command Victim\par 
\tab Inscription: Describes password and enchantment.\par 
\tab Password: \ldblquote Achtung\rdblquote \par 
\tab Reliability Score: 51\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Greater Artifact Descriptions}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Greater Artifacts are usually unique, one-of-a-kind artifacts. The Greater Artifacts listed here are only examples of Greater Enchantments. 
Greater Artifacts are seldom available for any price, and often the creator is dead or unavailable to restore actuations upon the artifact. Collectors, guilds, and academies will offer 1000 GC or more for interesting specimens\'c9 if they can\rquote 
t get their sovereigns to condemn and confiscate them for the Public Good. (The Cost/Craft Classes given for examples of Greater Artifacts is only a suggested guideline; GMs are encouraged to increase or decrease these Cost/Cra
ft Classes at their discretion.)\par 
\tab Greater artifacts are far more rare and marvelous than any of the other works of the ancient and modern races. There are no more than a handful of sorcerors of Rank 4 alive in the world at any time, and within a lifetime, most Rank 4
 sorcerors will produce no more than one or two greater artifacts. Further, most of the greater artifacts ever created have disappeared in ages past; many are lost, destroyed, or exhausted within the lifetimes of their creators. 
Finally, greater artifacts are prized for their arcane powers as well as for their scarcity, and are carefully hoarded and guarded in the archival collections of the magick
 guilds and the private collections of great enchanters and other rich and powerful figures.\par 
\tab Therefore, within a lifetime, even a very important layman might lay eyes on no more than one or two greater artifacts. 
During his studies a sorceror might view a number of greater artifacts, perhaps even two dozen, but would seldom have to chance to even personally examine one, much less use one.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Greater Rune Staves}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Greater Rune Staff is a magickal focus designed to be used by any other sorcerous spellcaster who knows the password for the focus. 
Such rune staves bear the runes for any spells or rituals the sorceror intended to be used by other users of the staff; for instance, such a staff permits a sorceror\rquote s apprentice to cast a spell that the apprentice does not himself know.\par 
\tab Rune staves permit a sorceror to cast any spell invested in the staff, whether the sorceror knows the spell or not. Rune staves may bear any spell or ritual that their creators knew. 
Rune staves may be also be used as beacons and receivers for messages and travelers through the void. The following spells and rituals utilize a focus for this purpose, and a rune staff can serve as such a focus for its user: {\i voidsend message}, {\i v
oidlink message}, {\i spiritwalk}, {\i voidtravel}.\par 
\tab As products of Fourth Rank sorcerors, Rune Staves are rare enough, but they are even more rare because such master sorcerors seldom are willing to entrust their magickal abilities to a subordinate, much less someone who wishes
 to purchase such an item.\par 
\tab Greater Rune Staff enchantments have the following Cost/Craft Classes. The Cost/Craft Class indicated is for each spell or ritual of its kind added to the staff.\par 
\tab \bullet  Petty Spells (4/Rare)\par 
\tab \bullet  Petty Rituals (5/Rare)\par 
\tab \bullet  1st Rank Spells (8/Very Rare)\par 
\tab \bullet  1st Rank Rituals (10/Very Rare)\par 
\tab \bullet  2nd Rank Spells (10/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab \bullet  2nd Rank Rituals (12/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab \bullet  3rd Rank Spells (12/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab \bullet  3rd Rank Rituals (14/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab \bullet  4th Rank Spells (15/Very Rare-24)\par 
\tab \bullet  4th Rank Rituals (20/Very Rare-24)\par 
\par 
{\ul Example of a Greater Rune Staff\par 
}\tab Name: unnamed\par 
\tab Description: Enchanted by Grandmaster Stephan of Altdorf for use in tutoring students in the summoning and control of elemental beings.\par 
\tab History: Reserved for use of instructors at Zauberkollegium Altdorf; enchantments have all failed and been restored numerous times because of frequent use.\par 
\tab Enchantments: summon least elemental, summon lesser elemental, banish lesser elemental\par 
\tab Inscription: Describes password and enchantment.\par 
\tab Password: \ldblquote Zw\'9alfnacht\rdblquote \par 
\tab Reliability Score: 73\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Greater Weapon}s}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Greater Weapon may bear more powerful versions of lesser weapons, or may bear unique and unusual enchantments like the following examples:\par 
\tab Greater (Common Species) Foebane (8/Very Rare): This enchantment causes triple the normal damage upon a given common species.\par 
\tab Aethyrdamp (15/Very Rare-24): This enchantment binds True Iron with aethyrial energies which interfere with other magickal effects. Prevents the casting of sorcerous spells and rituals if within 5 yards of the invoker.\par 
\tab Corruption (10/Very Rare-10): This enchantment may be applied to any object. A successful touch of flesh with the activated artifact causes the victim's flesh to decay as if it were part of a rotting corpse. 
The victim loses 1 wound point per day until he dies of a fatal result on the Sudden Death & Critical Hit Table ({\ul WFRP}, page 125). \par 
\par 
{\ul Example of a Greater Weapon\par 
}\tab Name: \ldblquote Witchkiller\rdblquote \par 
\tab Description: A hand-and-a-half sword of Dark Elven origin, in extremely poor condition, inscription barely legible.\par 
\tab History: Unknown; discovered in treasure of a hobgoblin tomb on the eastern slopes of the World\rquote s Edge Mountains by orcs, and subsequently captured from orcs by adventurers; presented as a gift to Emperor Karl-Franz I.\par 
\tab Enchantments: Aethyrdamp\par 
\tab Inscription: Describes password and enchantment in Arcane Elf.\par 
\tab Password: \ldblquote Gadderstor\rdblquote \par 
\tab Reliability Score: 21\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Greater Armor}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
A Greater Armor enchantment may increase the armor protection of an item of armor by two points, and in rare cases, by three points. It also may provide unique and unusual enchantments of a defensive nature like the following:\par 
\tab Protection +2 (16/Very Rare-20): Adds +2 armor points to an item of armor.\par 
\tab Protection +3 (20/Very Rare-24): Adds +3 armor points to an item of armor.\par 
\tab Shatterblade (16/Very Rare-20): Causes non-magickal metal blades to shatter when they strike the item of armor (wounds are still inflicted as normal).\par 
\par 
{\ul Example of a Greater Armor\par 
}\tab Name: \ldblquote Twilight\rdblquote \par 
\tab Description: Breastplate decorated in silver and gold, created for Duc Fran\'8dois de la Parravon by a sorceress known only as La Jeunesse.\par 
\tab History: Never worn in battle; thought to be in the possession of Duc Grandgousier of Parravon.\par 
\tab Enchantments: Shatterblade, Darkscreen (note that the armor also bears a lesser rune ring enchantment)\par 
\tab Inscription: Describes password and enchantment in Arcane Elf and Classical Bretonnian.\par 
\tab Password: \ldblquote Twilight Falls\rdblquote \par 
\tab Reliability Score: 94\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Greater Rune Ring}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Greater Rune Ring contains magick effects of spells and rituals to be released at the user\rquote s convenience. The enchantment binding rituals are cast simultaneously with the spells or rituals to be stored. 
Greater Rune Rings are available for all Petty and First, Second, Third, and Fourth Level spells and rituals at the GM\rquote s discretion, and may bear from one to four enchantments (i.e., one to four different spells or rituals per ring). 
Greater rune rings may be used by sorcerors or non-sorcerors, unlike greater rune staffs, which may only be used by sorcerors.\par 
\tab Greater Rune Ring enchantments have the following Cost/Craft Classes. The Cost/Craft Class indicated is for each spell or ritual of its kind added to the staff.\par 
\tab \bullet  Petty Spells (6/Rare)\par 
\tab \bullet  Petty Rituals (8/Rare)\par 
\tab \bullet  1st Rank Spells (8/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab \bullet  1st Rank Rituals (10/Very Rare-10)\par 
\tab \bullet  2nd Rank Spells (10/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab \bullet  2nd Rank Rituals (12/Very Rare-20)\par 
\tab \bullet  3rd Rank Spells (12/Very Rare-24)\par 
\tab \bullet  3rd Rank Rituals (14/Very Rare-24)\par 
\tab \bullet  4th Rank Spells (15/Very Rare-24)\par 
\tab \bullet  4th Rank Rituals (20/Very Rare-24)\par 
\par 
{\ul Example of a Greater Rune Ring\par 
}\tab Name: \ldblquote The Eye of the Worm\rdblquote \par 
\tab Description: A massive ring of precious and semi-precious stones set in gold in the form of a great serpent\rquote s eye; creator unknown; ornamentation in style of late Pharonic Empire; diameter of ring implies wearer larger than normal humanoid.
\par 
\tab History: Came into the Altdorf Guild collection through anonymous tomb robbers; no evidence.\par 
\tab Enchantments: tunnel through stone\par 
\tab Inscription: Describes enchantment in Old Slann and Ancient Dark Elf as \ldblquote What the Eye Sees, It Devours\rdblquote .\par 
\tab Password: none\par 
\tab Reliability Score: 71\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Greater Rune Engine}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Greater Rune Engine is a mechanism combining the arcane engineering technology of the ancient Imperial Dwarf culture and sorcerous enchantments. The knowledge
 and skill to produce such artifacts is believed to be lost to modern dwarven cultures, or possibly maintained in secret by obscure dwarven craftsmen-sorcerors. 
A number of examples are in the collections of the Guilds, and a number of otherwise obscure mechanisms discovered in the ruins of the dwarven cites of the World\rquote s Edge Mountains are theorized as products of these magickal arts.\par 
\par 
{\ul Example of a Greater Rune Engine\par 
}\tab Name: \ldblquote Greatest Mechanism for the Most Reliable and Puissant Extirpation of Unlamented Pestilences\rdblquote \par 
\tab Description: An arm-sized cylinder with multijointed levers; an inscription in Old Slann suggests that the device is for removing pests; difficulties in translating the units of measure and the text which follows the word for \ldblquote Caution!
\rdblquote  have discouraged researchers from investigating the artifact's powers.\par 
\tab History: unknown\par 
\tab Enchantments: Known only to the GM, but you can bet they involve the death of lots of things that the engine is taught to recognize as pests.\par 
\tab Inscription: in Old Slann; obscure\par 
\tab Password: none\par 
\tab Reliability Score: 71\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Greater Rune Device}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Greater Rune Device is any Greater Artifact of a form or enchantment not easily classifiable in the categories listed above. Greater Rune Devices should have puzzling and dangerous-sounding names,
 and vague, obscure purposes and functions. Characters should be very excited to see one, but be extremely uninterested in finding out what it actually does. For example, consider the \ldblquote Glorious Plow of Anastomosing Ductoliths\rdblquote : 
the inscription in Old Slann is obscure. Nobody has any idea what a ductolith is, or whether anastomosing it would be a good idea, and sensible folk are in no hurry to find out. (Zany Chaos cultists might push the button without a second thought, though.)
 Other similar devices might include the \ldblquote Greater Globe of Pangaean Convergence\rdblquote  or the \ldblquote Seed of Ocean Floor Spreading\rdblquote .\par 
\par 
{\ul Example of a Greater Rune Device\par 
}\tab Name: \ldblquote The Fabulous Carpet of Fez-A-Zhoul\rdblquote \par 
\tab Description: A great Arabic carpet stretched upon a frame of six rune staves, four as outer members, two as x-crossed supports; capable of carrying six persons as the flight major spell.\par 
\tab History: Presented as a gift to Emir Mehmet ibn Jaffar by Wahibah the Black, a powerful, purportedly
 immortal necromancer of Arabic legend; received as a gift by Prince Jesse Emmanuel of the Border Princedoms; used only once, resulting in the mysterious death of Emir Mehmet.\par 
\tab Enchantments: six flight major enchantments, six lesser spirit enchantments (each spirit with 8 MP to provide magickal energy for the flight major enchantments)\par 
\tab Inscription: describes password and enchantment\par 
\tab Password: \ldblquote Peace be with you, Mehmet my gracious benefactor.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Reliability Score: 80\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Greater Artifacts\: Tips for the GM}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab For the most part, Greater Artifacts will be designed by the GM. Examples are given above, rather than specific lists as are given with lesser artifacts, because Greater Artifacts should be rare, marvelous, and distinctive.
 However, player characters of the 4th rank with the Enchant Greater Artifact skill may also create Greater Artifacts. Such PC-created Greater Artifacts shall always be designed with the consultation and consent of the GM. 
Both the GM and player should be limited by the following guidelines in creating Greater Artifacts:\par 
\tab 1. {\ul Greater Artifacts should be based only upon magickal effects producable by sorcerous spells, rituals, and alchemical compounds, and should not be designed to avoid the limitations associated with such magick effects}. As such, any greater 
artifact which reproduces one or more effects already found in existing spells, rituals, and alchemical compounds may be suitable for consideration. 
Artifacts should not attempt to avoid the limitations designed into existing spells, rituals, and compounds, unless compensating limitations are added to prevent a too-great increase in power. 
For example, an artifact which summons an elemental in one round, rather than the 1d6+3 rounds necessary for a ritual summoning, should cost more MP, or should receive penalties to
 WP for Control tests, or should have a shorter duration, or some other compensating limitation.\par 
\tab 2. {\ul The higher the rank of the spell, ritual, or compound an artifact's magickal effects are based on, the more time-consuming, difficult, and expensive the creation of the artifact should be}. 
For example, a greater artifact producing the effects of a second rank spell ought to be much easier and less expensive to create than one producing the effects of a third or fourth rank spell.\par 
\tab 3. {\ul Magick effects associated with the careers of a sorceror should be easier, less-expensive, and less time-consuming to add to a greater artifact than magick effects associated with careers outside his experience}. 
For example, an illusionist should have lots of trouble producing a greater artifact with necromantic properties, since he\rquote ll have to hire a necromancer to assist him. Without the assistance of skilled assistants, a sorceror can\rquote t design 
magick powers outside his discipline into his greater artifacts.\par 
\tab 4. {\ul Greater Artifacts must consume the user\rquote s MP to produce magick effects}. (Spirit and daemon enchantments, however, may contain spirits or daemons to provide MP.) Cost in MP to produce a magick
al effect with a greater artifact ought not be less expensive than causing a similar effect with a spell or ritual.\par 
\tab 5. {\ul The more modest the powers and abilities of a greater artifact, the more suitable it is for introduction to a campaign}. Even if a proposed design fails to satisfy the first two guidelines, if the 
GM feels the greater artifact has sufficiently modest powers and abilities that it poses little threat of abuse by power-hungry players, he may permit it.\par 
\tab 6. {\ul The more ambitious the powers and abilities of a greater artifact, the less suitable it is for introduction to a campaign}. 
Gamemasters may occasionally introduce exceptionally powerful artifacts in the hands of NPC patrons or villains, but such should never fall into the hands of PCs, or an entire campaign can be ruined.\par 
\tab 7. {\ul Any greater artifact device must be true to the spirit of Warhammer and the Known World}. Artifacts similar to those described in other WFRP supplements will generally be acceptable, though some published examples of sorcerous artifact
s may be too powerful for many GM tastes. Avoid the impulse to introduce really cool sorcerous artifacts from your fantasy reading and viewing which don\rquote t really suit the Warhammer setting. \par 
\par 
\tab The GM\rquote s main concern is to avoid introducing a greater artifact which, in the hands of a player or non-player character, might allow the character to be become so influential that he overshadows contemporary and historical heroes and wizards,
 or even daemons and godlings, of the campaign. No sorcerous artifact has ever been significant enough to change the course of Known World history. Any artifact which makes a character immortal, or safe from most or all physical or magick
al threats, or places at his disposal destructive or manipulative abilities of overwhelming power ought never to be permitted in the hands of a player character, and may be placed in the hands of an NPC only as the centerpiece of an epic narrative. 
Characters, not magickal devices, are at the center of Known World history, and at the center of WFRP roleplaying, and even the greatest sorcerous artifact
s may serve only as the trappings of player and non-player characters, and ought never overshadow the heroic and villainous action of the characters themselves.\par 
\tab In beginning campaigns, greater artifacts should be the stuff of legend, the trappings of remote and famous NPCs. Don\rquote t even think about letting the player characters get their hands on one. 
At most, a greater artifact might provide the central plot element of a series of linked adventures, as does the One Ring in Tolkien\rquote s Ring Trilogy.\par 
\tab As your campaigns and player characters mature, greater artifacts may enter your campaigns in one of the following roles:\par 
\tab \bullet  Colorful, Bizarre, Unique, but Modestly Powerful Gadgets: These artifacts should be little more than interesting variations of magick
 effects available with existing spells and rituals, thereby insuring that the artifacts will unbalance your campaign at least no more than the spells and rituals we've designed for it. 
Possession of such unique items helps distinguish the character of the PCs and NPCs who possess them, and adds to the fantasy flavor of the narrative and setting, rather than offers a new crowbar for PCs to rip up the floorboards of the campaign.\par 
\tab Example: Haarig plucked the glowing sword from the scatter of bones beneath the tapestry and brandished it in the air. Stehmar snatched the blade impatiently from Haarig, and thrust it before Viktor\rquote s eyes. 
Viktor translated the blade's inscription haltingly: \ldblquote Munkeln, whose blade\'c9were \emdash  eh, is\'c9 glowing when\'c9 is in place of\'c9eh\'c9spirit\'c9no, noo, daemon, that's it\'c9 glows when daemons are\'c9uh\'c9(peering about thoughtfully)
\'c9 around\'c9?\rdblquote \par 
\tab This greater artifact is a sword with a two enchantments: one, to glow when daemons are around, and two, a spirit enchantment to provide the MP for the artifact\rquote s activation. 
Unless daemons in disguise are an important element of a mystery-intrigue campaign, such an artifact is unlikely to make its owner significantly more powerful under most circumstances.\par 
\tab \bullet  Powerful but Narrowly-Defined Gadgets: Such items add new powerful magick to a campaign, but not in any way that the player characters can assume for their own purposes. Examples are magick
al portals that lead to the scene of the next adventure, or daemonbane swords good only against the single named daemon of its inscription, coincidentally the daemon at the center of the current campaign plot's machinations. This permits powerful magick
 to be placed in the hands of the characters without worrying that the power will spill over into other elements of the campaign, upsetting delicate balances.\par 
\tab Example: \ldblquote Here, upon the inner curve of the ring, in Elder Far-Elth\'87rin, is the inscription: \lquote Gwaethoniel, Kindler of the Wind, shall answer thy summons, if thee be bound to bear his price.\rquote  
The Wood Elves say his is the form of the Great Eagle; the Dark Elves say his is the form the Black Dragon. 
Whichever be truth, or neither, he is a mighty lord of the domain of Elemental Air, and we have need of such, if we would meet the Lords of Chaos in battle on the plains beneath the Cliffs of Chaos.\rdblquote \par 
\tab The Kings of Bretonnia ride dragons into battle whenever dragons are in supply. The PCs are enlisted by the guild to obtain a dragon, and are instructed to pay the dragon\rquote s price, whatever it might be. 
With this greater rune ring the PCs summon the eagle-dragon Gwaethoniel, have a charming roleplaying encounter bargaining with him, get hooked into a side adventure in paying Gwaethoniel\rquote 
s price of service, and end up accompanying Gwaethoniel, the King of Bretonnia, and the armies of Bretonnia in a campaign to the Chaos Wastes.\par 
\tab \bullet  Too-Powerful Gadgets of Epic Significance that Must Not Ever Fall Into the Hands of Player Characters: These are Totally Cool Magickal Monstrosit
ies that must either die with their evil NPC owners or disappear mysteriously into cracks of doom at the end of an adventure. 
Such Awesome Devices exist solely for the convenience of the GM and his narrative, and may become crucial thematic elements of a campaign, so long as the GM can justify denying their campaign-unbalancing magick effects to the PCs.\par 
\tab Example: The Black Crown of Na\'95nn Moonborer, lord of Khazadzinbar, was said to strike dead any dwarf who denied the crown\rquote s wearer sovereignty. Thrasir had been assured of the accuracy of this legend from the ancient-father\rquote 
s tales of his family, and though as he crept toward the Moonborer\rquote 
s chamber hall he wished he could doubt the hearthsayings of his fathers, nonetheless he thrilled that their words must be true, and that could he but gain the Black Crown, how he might rule with such a crown, and how he might avenge the wrongs done to his
 people.\par 
\tab The crown is a greater artifact with the power to cause a critical hit +6 to the head of any living being within sight of the wearer, with no test to resist magick. 
This is obviously too powerful a device to permit a PC to use, but a quest to seek such a legendary artifact in the ruins of Khazadzinbar in the vaults beneath the World's Edge Mountains might be worthy of a noble dwarf PC and his companions.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Legends and Lore of Greater Artifacts\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Greater artifacts should have elaborate and heroic lore and legend associated with them. The artifact\rquote s magickal powers themselves will be greatly prized by characters,
 but the better the story associated with the artifact, the more significant the artifact will appear, even if its powers are relatively modest. As well, it\rquote 
s an opportunity to give practical significance to the elegant background material WFRP GMs like to devise for their Old World campaigns; as PCs track down the personalities, locales, and legends associated with a greater artifact, they learn more about it
s mysterious powers and limitations\'c9 and unconsciously identify themselves more and more with the imaginary heroes and histories of the campaign.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Divine vs. Sorcerous Greater Artifacts}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Divine Artifacts are limited by the will of the deity; sorcerous artifacts are limited by the inherent metaphysical limits of sorcery. 
In theory, the only thing that limits the power and capabilities of divine artifacts is the intention of deities to keep followers in their place. Sorcerous artifacts are limited in their power and effects to magick
 effects producable by word, thought, and rune as represented in the spells and rituals of sorcerous practice. Variations and enhancements of existing magick effects may be expected, but few fundamental laws of sorcery are yet to be discovered. 
On the other hand, there is no limit to the variation of magick effects that might be produced by divine artifacts, so long as a divine being is willing to create such artifacts and give them to their followers.\par 
\tab GMs eager to introduce powerful, outlandish, and/or evil sorcerous artifacts into their campaigns for the use of NPC villains would be best advised to conceive them as divine artifacts granted by the Chaos Powers, rather than as sorcerous artifacts. 
That way GMs has free license to create any sort of magick effect imaginable. Such devices, being evil, should promise corruption and death for noble player characters, who in 
worshipping righteous, or at least pleasantly neutral, divine beings are lamentably restricted by the notable restraint of such beings in handing out powerful magick devices to their worshippers.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Greater Artifacts Designed by Player Characters}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab PCs with the Enchant Greater Artifact skill may design and create their own greater artifacts with the consultation and consent of the GM. Both the GM and player should be familiar with the \ldblquote Enchantments
\rdblquote  rules. First, the player should describe the basic features of the greater artifact he wishes to create. 
Second, the GM gives the matter some thought, and either rejects the basic conception, or suggests suitable modification, or approves the basic conception. Third, the GM determines the requirements for creating the greater artifact as described under 
\ldblquote Enchantments\rdblquote  and explains them to the player. When the requirements have been satisfied, the greater artifact is created and ready for use by the PC sorceror.\par 
\tab Example: Geoff\rquote s Illusionist has just achieved the 4th rank, and is eager to create a greater artifact. He reviews the guidelines for creating greater artifacts, and decides that he wants something modest, cheap, and fast. 
That rules out higher rank spell, ritual, and compound effects, and magick effects from other disciplines. He tells the GM that he\rquote 
d like a greater artifact which produces the effects of the hypnotic command ritual, but which works in one round, rather than in 1d6+3 rounds like all rituals.\par 
\tab The GM thinks about this carefully. The design attempts to overcome a limitation of the hypnotic command ritual (i.e., 1d6+3 rounds to cast), so the design must incorporate some balancing limitation. It is only a second rank magick
 effect, and within the caster's discipline, so it shouldn\rquote t be too daunting a task to build it into an artifact. The item wouldn\rquote 
t be too powerful, since a resistance test is permitted, but it would be much easier to use the artifact without being observed than it would be to cast the ritual unobserved. 
In the hands of an ambitious noble, leader, or merchant, such a device could be very powerful indeed.\par 
\tab The GM tells Geoff that such a device will certainly need some special limitations, and might be too powerful for the campaign. 
Geoff suggests that a reduction of the duration of effect from 1d6 hours to 1d6 minutes, and an increase of the MP cost from 6MP to 12MP, would significantly reduce the potential power of the artifact. 
The GM and Geoff continue to haggle over details for a bit, but finally the GM approves the basic concept.\par 
\tab Now Geoff\rquote s Illusionist needs to go through the seven steps of enchanting a sorcerous artifact (see \ldblquote Enchanting Sorcerous Artifacts\rdblquote  below). The GM needs to review the figures for cost, time, an
d MP spent to enchant the artifact as described in the guidelines. 
Depending on how eager or unenthusiastic the GM is about introducing the new artifact to his campaign, he may arbitrarily alter some of suggested figures to make the artifact easier or more difficult to produce. 
He then informs Geoff about any such departures from the published guidelines, giving Geoff a chance to whine or grin cheerfully as appropriate.\par 
\tab Geoff\rquote s Illusionist spends the coin, time, and MP to enchant the artifact. In perhaps three, four, or more sessions enough game time will have passed for Geoff to proudly introduce his new creation for the first time. 
The GM watches carefully for while to see if the artifact presents any unanticipated threats to the campaign; if it does, he begins scheming ways to take it away from Geoff. 
On the other hand, if the artifact seems to fit into the campaign and becomes associated in the campaign narratives and histories with Geoff\rquote s character, the artifact is a great success, and everybody is real happy.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Spirit Enchantment Descriptions}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Spirit enchantments permit necromancers to place the spirits of deceased humanoids into Lesser and Greater Artifacts. 
Lesser spirit enchantments bind a humanoid spirit into an artifact, then enable the artifact to draw MP from the bound spirit rather than from the user to power the artifact\rquote s magickal effects. 
Greater spirit enchantments place a self-aware humanoid spirit into an artifact; in addition to drawing MP from the spirit, the artifact\rquote s user can also communicate with the bound spirit and solicit its aid in the form of knowledge and advice.
\par 
\tab As products of outlawed sorcerous practices, spirit-enchanted artifacts are very rare. Possession of such an artifact is grounds for execution in many Old World nations. 
However, such devices were relatively common in Pharonic and late Dark Elf cultures, and as such may be encountered occasionally in ancient treasure hoards or the collections of monsters, guilds, magick colleges, outlaw sorcerors, Imperial Dwar
ves, wealthy collectors, and heads of state.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Lesser Spirit Enchantments}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Lesser Spirit Enchantment on a Lesser Artifact or a Greater Artifact places a spirit in the artifact which serves as a reservoir of Magick
 Points for activation of the artifact only; the MP may not be drawn upon for other purposes. The spirit must first be summoned with the capture humanoid spirit ritual, then bound into the artifact with the Lesser Spirit Enchantment skill. 
Roll on the following chart to determine the artifact\rquote s spirit\rquote s MP score:\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tx2160\tqc\tx5040 \tab {\ul Roll}\tab {\ul Spirit's MP}\par 
\tab 01-50\tab 3 MP\par 
\tab 51-75\tab 4 MP\par 
\tab 76-90\tab 5 MP\par 
\tab 91-96\tab 6 MP\par 
\tab 97-98\tab 7 MP\par 
\tab 99\tab 7+1d4 MP\par 
\tab 00\tab 11+1d10 MP\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\tab The spirits bound into lesser spirit enchantments are not self-aware, and cannot be brought to self-awareness. A user of such an artifact can, at his option, draw on the artifact\rquote s MP or his own MP when activating the artifact. Each spirit
 recovers 1 MP every 24 hours.\par 
\par 
{\plain \f16\ul Example of a Lesser Spirit Enchantment\par 
}\tab Name: \ldblquote Aethalagrond\rdblquote \par 
\tab Description: Obsidian and black iron two-handed sword; large fire-ruby gem set in silver as a handle counterweight; Second Millenium Dark Elven Ornate period.\par 
\tab History: Created by \ldblquote Lord Dust\rdblquote  (presumably an unknown 2nd Millenium necromancer); identity of spirit bound into sword unknown; recovered from an Arabic tomb by grave robbers, currently in the collection of the Guild of Altdorf.
\par 
\tab Enchantments: Manifold Blows, Fountain of Blood, Lesser Spirit\par 
\tab Lesser Spirit MP: 3\par 
\tab Inscription: Describes password and enchantment in Arcane Dark Elf and Darktongue.\par 
\tab Password: \ldblquote Slake Thirst\rdblquote  in Arcane Dark Elven\par 
\tab Reliability Score: 51\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Greater Spirit Enchantments}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Greater Spirit Enchantment on a Lesser or Greater Artifact places a self-aware spirit in the artifact. This self-aware spirit must first be summoned with the {\i summon known spirit}
 ritual, then bound into the artifact with the Greater Spirit Enchantment skill. The spirit can serve both as a reservoir of magick points for the activation of the artifact (like a Lesser Spirit enchantment) and as an informant and companion,
 since the spirit can communicate telepathically with its powerlinked user within 10 yards, as well as magickally produce speech from the spirit-enchanted artifact just as if the artifact were alive.\par 
\tab The spirits bound to greater spirit enchanted artifacts determine their MP scores as above in lesser spirit enchantments. 
Further, since these spirits are actually NPC characters with personalities, motivations, skills, and histories, the GM should prepare character profiles for them just as he would for a major NPC character. Note that typically only 
the most cold-blooded and unprincipled are best suited to withstand the mental stress of indefinite confinement in an artifact; more honorable and decent souls trapped in sorcerous artifacts often suffer from numerous mental disorders (see {\ul WFRP}
, pp. 83-86). It should also be noted that all greater spirit enchanted artifacts know how to pronounce their own passwords, and so may activate themselves whenever they wish, regardless of the wishes of their powerlinked users. 
This can be a serious problem with treacherous or uncooperative artifacts.\par 
\par 
{\plain \f16\ul Example of a Greater Spirit Enchantment\par 
}\tab Name: \ldblquote Foreign Correspondent\rdblquote \par 
\tab Description: Steel dagger of Third Millenium High Elven design; inscription on blade in Arcane High Elf.\par 
\tab History: Early apprentice piece by Sulring Durgul, 4,500-year-old necromancer currently living in Bolgasgrad in the Translynsk of Kislev.\par 
\tab Enchantments: Stun, Greater Spirit\par 
\tab Spirit Contained: A Dark Elven First Rank necromancer captured and sacrificed
 over 4000 years ago; the spirit (an accomplished amateur poet and entertainer) has retained a form of sanity by composing really long humorous verse epics in its copious free time; a charming conversationalist, and fluent in many now-obscure dialects of t
he Dark Elven language.\par 
\tab Spirit Profile: \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab -\tab 40\tab -\tab -\tab 25\tab 50\tab 50\tab 50\tab 30\tab 11\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Skills: as a First Rank Necromancer, plus Public Speaking, Jest, Sing, and Comedian.\par 
\tab Inscription: Describes password and enchantment in Arcane High Elven.\par 
\tab Password: \ldblquote Hulinkhe\rdblquote  (translates from an archaic Dark Elven slang as \ldblquote Gotcha!\rdblquote )\par 
\tab Reliability Score: 67\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Daemon Enchantment Descriptions}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Daemon enchantments permit daemonologists to temporarily invest bound daemons in Lesser and Greater Artifacts. The daemon must first be summoned, then bound into service with the {\i bind daemon} ritual. 
The daemon may then be commanded to serve its master as an intelligent spirit inhabiting a sorcerous artifact. The daemon\rquote s material form is abando
ned, and its spirit is imprisoned in the artifact, to be released only upon the end of the duration of the {\i bind daemon} ritual, the destruction of the daemon, or the destruction of the artifact.\par 
\tab The daemon can serve both as a reservoir of magick
 points for activation of the artifact (like a Lesser Spirit enchantment) and as an informant and companion, since the daemon can communicate telepathically with its powerlinked user within 10 yards, as well as magick
ally produce speech from the daemon-enchanted artifact just as if the artifact were alive.\par 
\tab Daemon-enchanted weapons also have the following properties:\par 
\tab 1. A successful hit with a daemon-enchanted weapon that causes a wound point loss causes Fear in all living things.\par 
\tab 2. A successful hit with a daemon-enchanted weapon that causes a wound point loss drains 1d4 MP from the victim.\par 
\tab 3. Wearers of daemon-enchanted armor are immune to Fear and Terror.\par 
\tab 4. An daemon-enchanted weapon\rquote s attack is magickal, and therefore may affect beings which are only affected by magickal attacks.\par 
\tab 5. Daemon-enchanted artifacts sense magick emanations and perceive spirits of the living and undead creatures. These abilities work in the same way as the petty spells detect magick
 and perceive spirit, but daemon-enchanted artifacts may exercise these abilities at will, without expending MP.\par 
\tab As products of outlawed sorcerous practices, daemon-enchanted artifacts are very rare. Possession of such an artifact is grounds for execution in many Old World nations. 
Since the period of service of a bound daemon is only 101 days, daemon-enchanted artifacts are more short-lived than most sorcerous artifacts, and are thus even more rarely encountered.\par 
\tab Divine Daemon Weapons, the weapons gifted to Daemons and Champions of Chaos by their patron Daemon Powers, are divine artifacts, not sorcerous artifacts. 
Divine Daemon Weapons have completely different properties than sorcerous daemon-enchanted artifacts, and may only be created by the Great Powers of Chaos. 
Such daemon weapons are enormously more powerful than sorcerous daemon-enchanted artifacts, and far more long-lived, but may be obtained only as a reward for service to the Dark Powers. (See {\ul Slaves to Darkness}, page 94-96 and {\ul Divine Magick}
, page ??).\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Enchantment of Sorcerous Artifacts}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab This section offers guidelines for creation of sorcerous artifacts. 
Experienced GMs are encouraged to play fast and loose with these guidelines; new GMs probably should take them more seriously until they discover by experience how dangerous a proliferation of powerful artifacts can be to the health of a fantasy roleplayin
g campaign. When player characters in your campaign have achieved the 3rd rank of their advanced careers, they will use these guidelines, with your guidance and consent, to create their own sorcerous artifacts.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Temporary Enchantments}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Objects may be temporarily enchanted by the casting of an appropriate Enchantment ritual (e.g., enchant lesser weapon). 
Such enchantments are effective only for the duration of the ritual effect, as specified in the ritual description.\par 
\tab Two enchantment rituals, {\i enchant lesser weapon} and {\i enchant lesser armor}, are described on pages ?? and ??. Other Enchantment rituals may be made available through the Guilds at the GM\rquote s discretion. 
As a guideline, assume that most Lesser Artifacts could theoretically have a corresponding temporary enchantment ritual. 
However, temporary enchantments should be cost-inefficient and inconvenient to perform under most circumstances, so few sorcerors would dedicate time or effort to their study.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Permanent Enchantments}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab An object may receive a permanent enchantment through a sorcerous procedure known as a praxis which binds magickal substances and properties to an object through runecraft and ritual, producing a magick
al item called an artifact. Sorcerors with the Runecraft skill {\b and} Enchant Lesser Artifact or Enchant Greater Artifact skills may make sorcerous artifacts. 
Sorcerors with the Enchant Lesser Spirit Artifact, Enchant Greater Spirit Artifact, or Enchant Daemon Artifact skills may add spirit or daemon enchantments to Lesser and Greater Artifacts.\par 
\tab The steps in producing a sorcerous artifact are listed below. Figures are given in parentheses to indicate the base expense and time necessary to complete each step. To find the expense and time necessary for a given step in the production o
f a specific artifact, multiply the expense and time figures given in parentheses by the Cost/Craft Class of the artifact in question.\par 
\tab For example, to determine the expense and time necessary to obtain access to a praxis for a lesser armor with the Protection +1 (8/Very Rare-20) enchantment, multiply the figures given in parentheses for obtaining access to a praxis (Cost: 1d10 GC
 for research fees, scribes, etc. Time: 1d10 hours MP Cost: none) by the enchantment\rquote s Cost/Craft Class (8). A d10 is rolled for GC cost (the roll is 6) and multiplied by 8 (6 x 8 = 48), with a resulting cost of 48 GC to obtain a praxis. 
A d10 is rolled for time required (the roll is 2) and multiplied by 8 (2 x 8 = 16 hours), with a resulting period of 16 hours necessary to obtain a praxis. No MP are expended in this step.\par 
\tab These guidelines are most appropriate for the creation of Lesser Artifacts. The GM may choose to be more arbitrary in determining the cost and time necessary to enchant Greater Artifacts, according to his desi
re to limit or encourage the introduction of a given Greater Artifact to his campaign. For example, we suggest multiplying figures for expense and time required by 10 for Greater Artifacts to reflect their rare and exotic nature. According to a GM\rquote 
s desire to limit or encourage the production of a given artifact, he might at his discretion vary that multiplier from double to 20 times the given figures.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Procedure for Producing a Sorcerous }A{rtifact }}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 1. Obtain access to the praxis for the artifact you wish to produce.\par 
\tab 2. Obtain the object to be enchanted.\par 
\tab 3. Obtain necessary alchemical reagents.\par 
\tab 4. Design the Inscription for the artifact.\par 
\tab 5. Design the Protection for the artifact.\par 
\tab 6. Engrave the proper runes on the object.\par 
\tab 7. Invest the alchemical reagents and the runes in the object through binding rituals.\par 
\par 
\tab {\ul Step One}: Obtaining a Praxis (Cost: 1d10 GC for research fees, scribes, etc. Time: 1d6+3 hours. MP Cost: none): A praxis is a detailed procedure for creating a sorcerous artifact. 
It describes physical requirements for the object to be enchanted, necessary magickal ingredients, inscription and protection provisions, rune engravings, and binding rituals.\par 
\tab Sorcerors with the Enchant Lesser Artifact skill may normally obtain access to a praxis for the creation of the Lesser Artifacts listed in this chapter. 
Such praxises are commonly available in the libraries of the Guilds and Academies, and occasionally in the private libraries of wealthy sorcerors. (GMs wishing 
to restrict PC creation of certain Lesser Artifacts may do so in the role of regulations of the Guilds and Academies, and through the rulers that grant them their charters.)\par 
\tab Greater Artifacts are typically rare or unique creations, and regarded as trade secrets by their designers. Rarely will a praxis be readily available, even in a large Guild or Academy library. 
Spirit and Daemon Artifacts are products of outlawed sorcerous practices, and as such details of their manufacture may be extremely hard to find. 
Locating a praxis for a Spirit, Daemon, or Greater Artifact will therefore often require great expense of time and coin.\par 
\tab Creation of a sorcerous artifact without a praxis is a difficult and doubtful enterprise. See \ldblquote Research\rdblquote  below.\par 
\tab {\ul Step Two}: Obtaining the Object to be Enchanted (Cost: according to the object. Time: 1d6+3 hours. MP Cost: none.): A praxis specifies the physical requirements for the object to be enchanted. 
Requirements for Lesser Artifacts are extremely modest; costs for the objects might be no more than those listed {\ul WFRP}, \ldblquote Goods and Services\rdblquote , pages 292-97; no Cost/Craft Class multiplier is required. 
Requirements for Greater, Spirit, and Daemon Artifacts are more demanding, and typically expensive and/or hard to obtain; use Cost/Craft Class multipliers as described above.\par 
\tab {\ul Step Three}: Obtaining Necessary Alchemical Reagents (Cost: 1d6+3 GC. Time: 1d6+3 hours. MP Cost: none.): Investing an object with a permanent magickal enchantment requires binding of inherently magickal substances
 to the object through binding rituals. These magickal substances are typically expensive and/or difficult to obtain.\par 
\tab {\ul Step Four}: Designing the Inscription (Cost: none. Time: 1d6+3 hours. MP Cost: none.): All sorcerous artifacts bear an inscription. At the least, an inscription includes runes for the enchantment. 
Usually an inscription also includes the name of its creator. The inscription may include a \ldblquote manual\rdblquote , a description in Arcane of the magickal enchantments the artifact bears, often with a translati
on of the Arcane inscription in one or more mundane languages. In some cases a brief \ldblquote dedication\rdblquote  commemorates a special person, event, or ideal the owner wishes to honor. 
Frequently the creator will include the password necessary to activate the artifact, though for security reasons this may be omitted, or recorded in a code or cipher.\par 
\'00\tab {\ul Step Five}: Designing the Protection (Cost, Time, and MP Cost: according to type of protection; see below): There are three types of protection limiting use of a sorcerous artifact:\par 
\tab 1. No Protection (Cost: no cost. Time: none. MP Cost: none.): Many artifacts are designed with no restrictions on who may use them. The user simply concentrates on the artifact, and the artifact is activated. 
This is most common with Lesser Artifacts created for guard or military units where many may use a single item.\par 
\tab 2. Password Protection (Cost: 2d10 silver shillings. Time: 1d6+3 hours. MP Cost: 4 MP.): This is the most common artifact protection scheme, and relatively inexpensive. The artifact is designed to activate only when a given password is spoken. 
In a world where literacy is an uncommon skill, and reading Arcane is yet more uncommon, sorcerors often include the password in the inscription; more cautious enchanters may conceal the password within a code, cipher, or riddle. 
Omitting the password from an inscription altogether is an increasingly common modern practice, but inscriptions of most ancient artifacts contain the password in some form or other.\par 
\tab 3. Destructive Protection (Cost: 2d10 GC. Time: 2d6+6 hours. MP Cost: 8 MP.): Some sorcerous artifacts are designed to harm those who use them without authorization. 
This is a relatively uncommon modern practice, mostly because of the added expense, but certain older artifacts, particularly necromantic and daemonic artifacts, are protected with deadly boobytraps. Such devices require a password, which is alwa
ys omitted from the inscription. If the password is not spoken when attempting to activate the artifact, the user gets a nasty shock, usually in the form of a Petty spell effect like {\i discorporate flesh}
, but in some cases in the form of higher level spell effects like {\i fountain of blood}, {\i wither life}, and {\i sever spirit}.\par 
\tab {\ul Step Six}: Rune-Engraving (Cost: none. Time: 1d6+6 hours. MP Cost: 1 MP per hour.): When the object and magick
al ingredients have been assembled and the inscription and protection designed, the sorceror must inscribe the appropriate runes upon the object as directed by the praxis. 
The slightest error or flaw in the rune inscription will ruin the enchantment, so careful enchanters expect to spend many hours with this stage of the enchantment.\par 
\tab {\ul Step Seven}: Ritual Binding of Reagents and Runes to the Object: (Cost: none. Time: 1d6+3 hours. MP Cost: 4 MP per hour.): 
Once the inscription is completed, the sorceror begins a series of binding and enchantment rituals as directed in the praxis. A single binding and enchantment ritual takes 1d6+3 hours, and requires an expenditure of many magick
 points, so few enchanters can do more than one series of rituals per day.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Restoring Enchantments on Failed Artifacts}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Enchantments can be restored to failed artifacts by any sorceror with the necessary enchantment skills and access to the necessary praxis and reagents. 
As such, most lesser enchantments can be restored if you can find a willing and able Third or Fourth Rank sorceror. Greater Artifacts are much more difficult to have recharged; only a Fourth Rank sorceror can do the job, and
 only if you or he can provide or locate the necessary praxis: a doubtful prospect, given the unique and idiosyncratic nature of most Greater Artifacts.\par 
\tab Restoring enchantments on failed artifacts is similar to enchanting an artifact, except that many steps do not need to be repeated. \par 
\tab If the creator is restoring an enchantment on an artifact he has previously enchanted, the creator already has access to a praxis; thus Step One may be omitted. If a sorceror is attempting to restore enchantments on an artifact
 originally enchanted by another sorceror, he must obtain a praxis, and Step One must be completed.\par 
\tab Step Two may be omitted, since the object is obviously already available.\par 
\tab Step Three, Obtaining Necessary Alchemical Reagents, must be completed again, since the reagents are needed for the binding rituals.\par 
\tab Steps Four, Five, and Six may be omitted, since the Inscriptions, Protection, and Runes have already be designed and engraved.\par 
\tab Step Seven, the Binding Rituals, must be completed to restore the enchantment to the artifact.\par 
\tab Thus restoring an enchantment to a failed artifact is much faster and cheaper than creating a new artifact from scratch.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Rates of Production}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Under ideal circumstances (ready access to the praxis, suitable objects and alchemical reagents, a simple enchantment, flawless first-time accuracy with the rune-engraving, no distractions, and good luck)
 many Lesser Artifacts can be enchanted in between 30-60 hours. More realistically, a sensible enchanter expects to turn out a Lesser Artifact once every two weeks.\par 
\tab Greater Artifacts are much more troublesome and time-consuming. Presuming a reliable praxis can be located, a Greater Artifact may consume several years of steady labor, even if working with competent assistants and unlimited resources. 
If a praxis is not available, and must be researched or improvised, a lifetime may be too short. The finest Fourth Rank sorceror may produce two or three Greater Artifacts in a lifetime; many never produce one. Ordinary mortal sorcerors ar
e usually quite elderly when they achieve Fourth Rank, and haven\rquote t the ambition and vigor necessary for such exhausting projects. 
Necromancers may be an exception to this rule; with their extended lifetimes, outlaw necromancers may amass collections of original Greater Artifacts far exceeding the output of most typical sorcerors. 
(GM: This is a swell excuse for you to leave dumploads of nice magickal treasures for folks who go hunting necromancers, and also gives you an excuse to load the hunted necromancer up with armloads of exotic magickal weapons and defenses.)\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Research}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab So. Your greedy players want to invent even more powerful magick to blast their way through your subtly-crafted adventures?\par 
\tab It\rquote s time for Research.\par 
\tab Now, you GMs can add new magickal spells, rituals, and artifacts to your campaign any time you want. We trust your judgment. You\rquote re not going to stick anything into your campaign that\rquote ll inflate the magick
 level into the stratosphere, or butcher whole populations with a single press of a button. (Well, maybe now and then, but not too often, we hope\'c9)\par 
\tab But your pesky players, they\rquote ll always want to chisel away a little more power for their characters, so you can\rquote t make them nervous when you bushwhack them. Here's how you can keep their chiseling down to a decent level.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Ancient or Obscure Spells, Rituals, and Enchantments\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sorcerors can go sit down in the magickal libraries of universities, guilds, or mages they\rquote ve murdered and look around for neat old magick tricks that nobody else knows about. 
Basically, you can give them whatever you want. Normally they should find nothing interesting, but now and then you can slip them some neat variant on some other common spell. Rarely will anyone come across a really useful magick
 spell, ritual, or artifact praxis this way; usually they\rquote re just going over old ground that many other sorcerors have traveled before.\par 
\tab However, a good song-and-dance should be rewarded. If you let a PC loose in a 4,500-year-old necromancer\rquote s library, and he just happens to have the Arcane Dark Elf language skill, and he says he\rquote 
s looking around for manuscripts with Second Millenium dates, and he happens to toss in a few names of famous Dark Elven necromancers from that period, well, he deserves to find some nifty necromantic spell effects. You don\rquote 
t have to improvise them on the spot, but you should promise to give him some neat new spells the next time you see the player.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16 {Researching New Spells, Rituals, and Enchantments\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sooner or later your players will ask to create some new spells, rituals, or sorcerous artifacts. Here are some tips on handling that situation:\par 
\tab \bullet  {\ul Stall for time}. Find some plausible excuse to delay a response for two or three sessions while you consider the request and how it will affect the campaign. Send them off to Tilea for a certain reference in the library of Academia
 Magia in Luccini, or tell them the only guy who knows what they want to know is in Marienburg; and when they get there, he happens to be under indictment for practicing daemonology without a charter.\par 
\tab \bullet  {\ul Give them what they want, but drag them through a couple of adventures to get there}. Don\rquote t worry so much about the magick they want. Concentrate on the energy they commit to getting it. 
Interest and commitment are usually pretty intense when players are pursuing something like a new magick power. If you get two or three good, intensely motivated adventures out of the deal, be happy.\par 
\tab \bullet  {\ul Assume that by the time they get what they want, they won\rquote t want it any more}. You have to give it to them, because otherwise they\rquote ll feel hosed, and distrust you the next time you want to send on an epic quest. 
But realize that campaigns have a way of shifting directions every three or four sessions. By the time they\rquote ve gotten their nifty new magick widget, you\rquote ve dumped a bunch of new problems in their laps, ones that their nifty new widget isn
\rquote t of much use anymore.\par 
\tab \bullet  {\ul Our warnings about not handing out too many or too powerful sorcerous artifacts won\rquote t prevent any GM from learning from experience}. We wouldn\rquote t want an obsession about magick
al inflation to keep GMs from indulging a lust for new, bizarre magick. GMs naturally succumb to the desire to introduce extra-cool sorcerous artifacts into their campaigns, usually because they\rquote ve just read about some really swell magick
al device in a novel and can\rquote t wait to add it to their campaigns. Well, in novels authors can control the way their characters use sorcerous artifacts, but that\rquote s not the case in fantasy roleplaying.\par 
\tab But GMs really have to learn from experience. Sooner or later you\rquote ll hand out too many or too powerful magick items. Then you\rquote ll just have to think of some clever way to take them away from the characters. But fortunately\'c9\par 
\tab \bullet  {\ul If you accidentally let sorcerous artifacts get out of hand in your campaign, your players will thank you for taking them away from their characters}. 
Most players will realize when they have gotten artifacts so powerful that they spoils the campaign for everyone. Just come up with a method that fits the feel of the Warhammer setting and develops the narratives and themes of your campaign.\par 
\pard \qj \tab For example, I bet there are plenty of 1000-year-old necromancers in the Old World who\rquote ll drop everything to come steal any piece of magick interesting enough to screw up your campaign. (In fact, it\rquote s a good idea to e
stablish a stock legendary megacharacter long before you need him.) Just ambush the players a couple of times with a super-tough NPC: give them a good thumping, and scare the daylights out of them. Then drop a polite hint that he\rquote ll spare everyone
\rquote s life if they just give up the magick you want taken out of circulation.\par 
}