{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Character Profile;}{\s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext2 Chapter Heading;}{\s3\qj \b\f16 
\sbasedon0\snext3 Section Heading;}{\s4\qj \f16 \sbasedon0\snext4 Subsection Heading;}}{\info}\widowctrl\ftnbj\pgnstart0\fracwidth {\*\nextfile perv.gov:Skills}\sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain 
\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 Realms of Sorcery\tab Careers and Skills\tab Page {\chpgn }\par 
}\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 Chapter 3\: Careers and Skills}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Sorcerors and Society}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Public Perception of Sorcerors}{\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab In urban settlements sorcerors are regarded by the underclass, the working poor, and the middle class with the same fascination and distrust as other educated, privileged aristocrats and professionals. 
Younger aristocrats and nouveau-riche merchants eagerly accept sorcerors as heralds of modern, progressive thinking; ownership of magickal artifacts, or better yet, employment of a sorceror, is quite fashionable.\par 
\tab In rural and wilderness settlements the traditional dominance of the cults in society persists, and along with it moral condemnation and fear of sorcerors. 
Hedgewizards still practice in secret, and perforce for persons of equally doubtful reputation. Academic sorcerors traveling in these regions can expect a cool reception, the minimum of required hospitality, and private condemnation and distrust.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Garb and Public Display of Status\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Like lawyers, wizards are under severe pressure from their college and guild to maintain a dignified and prosperous public posture. 
Some eccentrics may persist in dressing shabbily, or like everyday citizens, but most wizards succumb to peer pressure and dress like colorblind foreigners with a taste for fine fabrics.\par 
\tab By guild and academy rule, sorcerors must announce their spellcasting status by a conspicuous display of their staff (or other focus) and badges of Discipline and Rank (Apprentice, War Wizard 1st Degree, etc.) on their garments. 
Likewise those in possession of magickal artifacts are expected to display them prominently upon their person. Concealment of magickal ability may be taken as presumptive evidence of criminal intent.\par 
\tab Hedgewizards, on the other hand, avoid advertising their abilities in their clothing, and often affect the fashions and trapping of another career as a disguise for their real profession.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Ranks of Mastery\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Magickal academies and guilds throughout the Old World maintain the traditional ranks of Apprentice, and First, Second, Third, and Fourth Degrees. Study and practice of spells and rituals beyond your rank {is} prohibited. 
Such restrictions are strictly enforced upon pain of death (occasionally reduced to lifetime banishment) by the academies and guilds, with the cooperation of the local cults, ruling bodies, and heads of state. 
Within the profession, and among knowledgeable laymen, one is addressed by discipline and rank as a title (i.e., Elementalist 2nd Rank Wilmer Muhlen).\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {The Guilds\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The Magick Guilds of the Old World license sorcerous and alchemical practices under a charter from their local sovereigns. 
The Guilds have power to regulate the practice of sorcery and alchemy within their jurisdictions, to determine prices and fees for magickal services, and to arbitrate and judge disputes among Guild members and between Guild members and laymen. 
A variety of arcane services are available through the Guilds to the public for established fees, including assessment, identification, registry, and brokering of enchanted artifacts. 
(Note: Private entrepreneurs in competition with the guilds offer similar services of uneven quality and reliability, but generally at cheaper rates. 
Guild alchemists, however, are poorly paid compared to independent alchemists, and tend to be of indifferent skill and reliability.)\par 
\tab The Guilds also establish criteria for admission to the Guilds, administering examinations governing both acceptance to the Guild as an apprentice, and graduation to higher ranks of mastery. Standards and examinations vary, but in general all sorc
eror{\rquote }s apprentices and graduates of the Academies are by law members of the Magick Guild. Examinations are routinely administered through the academies, though procedures exist for direct examination by Guild Council in exceptional cases.\par 
\tab The Guild has divided the various sorcerous and alchemical skills into five ranks:\par 
\tab {\ul Entered Apprentice Academic} (also Apprentice, or Petty Level, Rank, or Degree)\par 
\tab {\ul Fellow Craft} (also Craft, or 1st Level, Rank, or Degree)\par 
\tab {\ul Master of Mysteries} (also Master, or 2nd Level, Rank, or Degree)\par 
\tab {\ul Select Master of Hidden Arts} (also Select Master, or 3rd Level, Rank, or Degree)\par 
\tab {\ul Grand Occident of the Supernal Realm} (also Grand Master, or 4th Level, Rank, or Degree)\par 
\tab The Guild establishes criteria for ranking of guild members and for assigning sorcerous spells and rituals and alchemical formulae to various Mastery Levels. 
Guild members are strictly enjoined from studying or teaching certain skills and practices until certified for a suitable mastery level.\par 
\tab The Magick Guilds also house the chartered Magick Academies, providing staff, and supervising courses of study and instruction. Also, Guilds are required by charter to provide aid and support to the public welfare under warrant of the sovereign. 
For the most part, this consists of military service to the nation's armies and militias, but may also include courtesies to aristocrats, nobles, and other persons favored by the Crown.\par 
\tab Among the benefits accorded Guild Members in good standing are stocking and sales of common alchemical reagents and other supplies; identification, registry, and assessment of enchanted artifacts;
 and access to libraries, labs, and research and reference personnel. Members{\rquote } dues are payable in cash or in services to the Guild. Traveling sorcerors may find fairly expensive but comfortable quarters at the guild hall. 
Guilds also have fine reference museums of enchanted artifacts, and publish lists of sorcerous services available to members and public.\par 
\tab Guild halls are found in all major cities and many large towns. The affairs of each hall are handled by a council. By custom the Master Councilor is the eldest, highest ranked
 resident member, but most administrative matters are handled by low-status prot\'8eg\'8es of the Master Councilor, typically sorcerors of modest achievements and immoderate ambition and pride.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Academies\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The Old World Academies of Sorcery were founded in the late 25th Century on the model of the great cult universities (e.g., the great universities of Altdorf and Nuln in the Empire). 
Typically chartered and endowed by the sovereign (in some cases with additional funds from town councils or the nobility), the Academies are housed within the precincts of the Guildhalls, with easy access to Guild libraries, labs, and staff. Military drill
s are held on city practice and exercise fields.\par 
\tab 
The Academies are staffed and administered by the Guild, under the advice and consent of representatives of the sovereign (and other sources of endowment), typically in the form of a council called the Board of Tutors comprised of Guildmembers, nobles, mi
litary staff officers, a representative of any appropriate city commissions, and loyal friends of the sovereign. Boards of Tutors have the power to hire staff, determine curricula, and examine and limit applicants for adm
ission and for graduation to higher mastery levels.\par 
\tab (Note: Spells can be learned without tutors, and hedgewizards are often not guild members, and not bound by their regulations. Thus sorcerors may be encountered who know spells of a rank higher than their mastery level. 
We suggest GMs limit this practice to NPCs, but see {\ldblquote }Hedgewizards: Learning New Spells and Rituals{\rdblquote }, page ??, where we suggest a method for extending this option to PCs.)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {The Colleges Arcane and the Old Secret Societies\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab In earlier periods of cult persecution of sorcery, the practices and traditions of sorcery were guarded and passed on in the Old World by various secret societies. 
Now that sorcery is sanctioned by the sovereigns, many former secret societies have been assimilated into the guild and academy system as the Colleges Arcane (also known as {\ldblquote }color colleges{\rdblquote }). 
The Colleges Arcane preserve the ancient secret society practices and traditions in fraternal organizations within the academy and guild system, like the various monastic orders within the Catholic church. \par 
\tab In large Guildhalls all of the different colleges are likely to be represented in the staff and students, but remote or small town study centers and guild chapters might be comprised of members of a single color college.\par 
\tab Here is a list of the major Colleges Arcane, with their formal title, their common name, and a brief description of their guiding principles.\par 
\tab {\ul Aquilia Aureus} (Golden Wizards): Though asserting a dedication to Perfect Reason and Honor, Gold Wizards have a popular reputation for mercenary greed and opportunistic ethics.\par 
\tab {\ul Turris Lumen} ( Light Wizards): Preserves traditional values of ancient Hedgewizardry: aid the poor, protect the weak, scorn and sting the rich and powerful. Persecuted by the authorities, honored by peasants and lower classes.\par 
\tab {\ul Triskele Triplex} (Jade Wizards): Specialize in the nature-oriented magicks of the rural countryside and wilderness. Favored by Elementalists.\par 
\tab {\ul Carpe Vita} (Amethyst Wizards): Playful, immoderate, and self-indulgent, regarding magick as a toy for art and amusement. Favored by Illusionists.\par 
\tab {\ul Espada de la Guardiana} (Grey Wizards): Self-appointed itinerant champions of Justice. Typically War Wizards, often military mercenaries and soldiers-of-fortune, solitary or in the company of other mercenary warriors. S
ometimes cynical, sometimes earnest in pursuit of Justice.\par 
\tab {\ul Cardo Artis} (Bright Wizards): Honors the pursuit of Magickal Knowledge, with little concern for the fates or fortunes of society. Associated with indiscriminate use of battlefield magicks. Favored by Necromancers and Daemonologists.\par 
\tab {\ul Sagittarius Arcanus} (Amber Wizards): Dedicated to improving the reputation of sorcery through good works in the community and for the state. Diplomatic, pragmatic, eager in service of merchant interests, new nobility, and military.\par 
\tab {\ul Nuntius Caelestis} (Celestial Wizards): Blend astrological mysticism with intellectual, elitist pretensions. Haven for hyper-intelligent, talented crackpots.\par 
\tab {\ul Annulus Mirabilis} (Wizards of The Great Wheel): Modern college, vague and inoffensive, primarily social in nature.\par 
\tab {\ul Aranei Tenebrarum} (Dark Wizards): Officially suppressed by the Guild, this college remains a secret society, in some cases with the support of criminal subcultures and ruthless aristocratic factions.\par 
\par 
{\plain \f16 Other Sorcerous Secret Societies\par 
}\tab These societies have remained secret for various reasons, typically because their practices and traditions are outlawed or abhorrent.\par 
\tab {\ul The Cup and Serpent}: Alchemist\rquote s society, masters of poisons and appalling potions\par 
\tab {\ul Dead Man\rquote s Taper}: Necromantic society of Pharonic origin (symbol is a candle made from a dead man\rquote s hand, with wicks at the tips of the thumb and fingers like a candelabra).\par 
\tab {\ul Spines of the Thistle}: Ancient and beneficent secret order of adventuring scholars; suspicious of current climate of tolerance, they remain a secret order in isolation. Sign of the thistle in a remote ruin or on a st
range artifact means that the Thistle has gone before and found no harm. (Symbol is purple thistle blossom at the top of a stalk covered with sharp spines)\par 
{\v \par 
[Develop these Secret Societies? Spines of the Thistle as an elaborated example, good for adventuring good guys?]\par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Popular Stereotypes of Wizards}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab In the popular imagination sorcerors are categorized by type. As with all stereotypes, considerable truth may be reflected in these folk notions.\par 
\tab {\ul The Hedgewizard Hermit}: Kindly, eccentric, absent-minded, private. Tolerated by the cult and community, {as} long as he remains isolated in the forest. 
Often figures in fairy tales as the refuge of lost children and the savior of villages from monsters.\par 
\tab {\ul The Nasty Hag} (or {\ul Warlock}): The dark side of hedgewizardry. Also isolated by choice, but preying occasionally on livestock and hapless youth. Real witches (the Dark Druid cults) are responsible for most of these impressions.\par 
\tab {\ul Academic Sorcerors}: Toothless old wheezers in chalk-covered coats with runes and moons all over them. Harmless scholars, hopelessly boring and intellectual.\par 
\tab {\ul War Sorcerors}: Grim, dangerous, ruthless wielders of arcane power. Fire, lightning, terror, and death. Good if they{\rquote }re on your side, but never welcome at anyone{\rquote }s table.\par 
\tab {\ul Tame Wizards}: Typically the pets and ornaments of the wealthy, powerful, and socially prominent. Showy, flamboyant, entertaining, well-bred.\par 
\tab {\ul Humanist/Philosophers}: In the Alchemical Philosophical tradition. More interested in studying the nature of the Universe than in applying magickal skills to practical ends. Well-meaning, harmless cranks.\par 
\tab {\ul Mercenary Entrepreneurs}: Boosters of Progress and Mercantile Prosperity. Eager to end restrictions on sorcery and expand use of magick in industry. Feared and distrusted by guilds; patronized by the merchant trader classes.\par 
\tab {\ul Evil Wizard}: Legendary dark power that appears mysteriously from nowhere, takes control of leaders by possession, extortion, and conspiracy, and sets out on a campaign of conquest and subjugation of neighboring peoples. 
Associated with ancient secret societies and immortal Dark Elves thought to have walked the Old World for millennia.\par 
\tab {\ul Godless Atheists}: Scornful of cults and morality. All magick is good, or at least interesting. All mundanes are morons. Superstition and worship are pathetic heritage of primitive ancestors. Gods are powerful but limiting to future of man and 
magick.\par 
\tab {\ul Pharonic Necromancers}: Ancient conspiracy of immortal Pharonic sorcerors who wish to rule the world with undead servants and legions.\par 
\tab {\ul Fiendish Servants of Chaos}: Daemonologists and necromancers in league with the Lords of Chaos. (In fact, few sorcerors worship or serve Chaos, except in alliances of convenience. 
Most Chaos Sorcerors are actually Chaos cult priests and initiates who derive their magickal powers directly from their gods.)\par 
\tab {\ul Enchanters}: Aged sorcerous craftsmen who specialize in the production of enchanted devices. Produce baubles, trinkets, and amulets for the masses, while laboring on their own bizarre experiments and research projects. 
Avid collectors of antiquarian artifacts.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Sorceror and Alchemist Careers Advance Schemes}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Several Advanced Careers: Wizard, Elementalist, Mentalist, Daemonologist, Necromancer, and Alchemist, have the same Advance schemes. 
That is, at the First, Second, Third, or Fourth Levels, each of these Advanced Careers have identical Advance Schemes.\par 
\par 
Hedgewizard\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +2\tab \tab \tab +10\tab \tab \tab +10\tab +10\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
Sorceror\rquote s/Alchemist\rquote s Apprentice\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +1\tab \tab \tab +10\tab \tab +10\tab \tab +20\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
Runemaster\rquote s Apprentice\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +2\tab \tab \tab \tab +10\tab +10\tab +10\tab +10\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
Sorceror/Alchemist 1st Rank\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +1\tab +3\tab +10\tab \tab +10\tab +10\tab +10\tab \tab +20\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
Sorceror/Alchemist 2nd Rank\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1160\tx1700\tx2240\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \tab \tab +10\tab +10\tab +1 +1\tab +4\tab +20\tab \tab +10\tab +10\tab +20\tab +10\tab +20\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
Sorceror/Alchemist 3rd Rank\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1160\tx1700\tx2240\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \tab \tab +10\tab +10\tab +1 +1\tab +5\tab +30\tab \tab +20\tab +20\tab +30\tab +20\tab +30\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
Sorceror/Alchemist 4th Rank\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1160\tx1700\tx2240\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \tab \tab +10\tab +10\tab +1 +1\tab +6\tab +30\tab \tab +30\tab +30\tab +30\tab +30\tab +30\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
Runemaster 1st Rank\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab +1\tab +3\tab +10\tab \tab \tab +20\tab +10\tab +10\tab +20\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
Runemaster 2nd Rank\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1160\tx1700\tx2240\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \tab \tab +10\tab \tab +1 +1\tab +4\tab +20\tab \tab \tab +20\tab +20\tab +20\tab +20\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
Runemaster 3rd Rank\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1160\tx1700\tx2240\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \tab \tab +10\tab \tab +1 +1\tab +5\tab +30\tab \tab +10\tab +30\tab +30\tab +30\tab +30\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
Runemaster 4th Rank\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1160\tx1700\tx2240\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \tab \tab +30\tab \tab +1 +1\tab +6\tab +30\tab \tab +30\tab +40\tab +30\tab +40\tab +30\tab \tab *\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
* See {\ldblquote }Determining Initial Magick Point Scores{\rdblquote } and {\ldblquote }Increasing Magick Point Scores{\rdblquote }, page ??.\par 
\par 
{\b\fs36 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {Basic Sorceror Careers}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Hedgewizard}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ldblquote }Hedgewizard{\rdblquote } is the title applied to sorcerors trained through the ancient tradition of private apprenticeship. 
This tradition remains strong in rural and primitive cultures where the cults still persecute the public practice of sorcery.\par 
\tab Commonly illiterate and ignorant of modern arcane notation, hedgewizards are typically less proficient spellcasters than their academic counterparts, and condemned to remain relatively unimpressive magicians unless they enter a
 course of academic study. Hedgewizards are typically from rural and poor backgrounds, regarded as hayseeds or lowlifes by academic sorcerors, and often at a disadvantage in academic and sophisticated social circles.\par 
\tab On the other hand, hedgewizards are generally more accustomed to hardship and rough-and-tumble than their bookish cousins, and their traditions of stealth and secrecy make them most suitable for private and devious adventures.\par 
\tab Some hedgewizards learn to read and write, and go on to the academic sorcerous disciplines. Others pursue non-sorcerous careers where their modest magickal abilities give them distinct advantages over others without any sorcerous training.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Beginning Spells and Rituals For Hedgewizards\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
Characters taking Hedgewizard as an Initial Career receive 1d6+3 castings chosen at random using the following table. Roll 1d100 to select castings; if a roll indicates a spell or ritual already selected, roll again until the proper number of castings are
 selected.\par 
\tab Characters entering the hedgewizard career from another career receive one spell or ritual randomly determined by rolling on the following table. Other spells must be learned and paid for as described in {\ldblquote }Learning New Spells and Rituals{
\rdblquote }, page ??.\par 
\par 
\tab 01-20 Detect Magick\par 
\tab 21-25 Discorporate Flesh\par 
\tab 26-30 Distract Awareness\par 
\tab 31-35 Distract Memory\par 
\tab 36-55 Bond Elements\par 
\tab 56-60 Powerlink Artifact\par 
\tab 61-70 Perceive Spirit\par 
\tab 71-75 Voidsend Message\par 
\tab 76-80 Lesser Pentagram\par 
\tab 81-85 Deepsleep\par 
\tab 86-90 Summon Elemental Node\par 
\tab 91-95 Toughen Flesh\par 
\tab 96-00 Vaporbloom\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Resist Magick\tab Rune Lore\par 
Sense Magick\tab Cast Petty Spell/Ritual\par 
Herb Lore\tab Identify Plant\par 
Elemental Tongue \tab Druidic Lore\par 
Flee!\tab Dowsing\par 
Silent Move Rural\tab Meditation\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
(Note: Hedgewizards rarely receive formal instruction in literacy and magickal notation, and must study and learn it on their own. Read/Write and Modern Arcane Languages are not received as free skills in character creation. However, to advance to Wizard 
1st Level, a character must possess Read/Write and Modern Arcane Languages skills, which must be paid for as Non-Career Skills ({\ul WFRP}, p 93) with experience points.)\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Trappings{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\fi-720\li720 Ordinary Hand Weapon\par 
Wizard\rquote s staff (or a focus of the spellcaster{\rquote }s own design)\par 
1 Lesser Artifact (an heirloom or present from a master; roll on the Random Magick Artifact Table below.)\par 
A couple of steamer trunks full of baubles and smoke pots to impress the rubes.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx3600 War Wizard, 1st Degree\tab Mercenary\par 
Outlaw\tab Outrider\par 
Thief\tab Charlatan\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Random Magick Artifact Table{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj \tab To determine which Enchanted Lesser Artifact is received as part of the trappings of a Hedgewizard or Sorceror's apprentice, roll 1d100 and consult the following table. \par 
\tab These items are described in {\ldblquote }Enchanted Artifacts{\rdblquote }, pages ??-??. See the notes following the table for clarification of certain items.\par 
\par 
\tab 01-20\tab extra focus\par 
\tab 21-30\tab staff of Ample Smiting +1\par 
\tab 31-40\tab staff of Desperate Defense\par 
\tab 41-50\tab leather jerkin of Protection +1\par 
\tab 51-60\tab Lesser Elixir of [Humanoid Species] Healing\par 
\tab 61-70\tab Lesser Elixir of Ogre Strength\par 
\tab 71-80\tab Lesser Elixir of Disguise\par 
\tab 81-85\tab Talisman of Ward vs. Fear\par 
\tab 86-90\tab Talisman of Resist Deepsleep\par 
\tab 91-95\tab Talisman of Resist Distract Awareness\par 
\tab 96-00\tab Talisman of Resist Distract Memory\par 
\par 
\tab {\ul Extra focus}: identical to the caster{\rquote }s original focus, bearing runes for all the spells and rituals currently known by the sorceror (of particular value for the {\i v}{\i oidsend message} petty spell)\par 
\tab {\ul Staff of Ample Smiting +1} and {\ul staff of Desperate Defense}: may be carved with runes as the sorceror{\rquote }s original focus, at the sorceror{\rquote }s option\par 
{\v \par 
[Revise Random Magick Artifact Table; give narrative/setting hooks to seem less arbitrary, like guild graduation gift for academies and heirloom gift from master for hedgewizards. Or... delete concept altogether.]\par 
}\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Sorceror}\rquote {s Apprentice}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab With sorcery sanctioned by the State and the Cults, and Guildhalls and Academies in most of the great cities of the Old World, more young men and women of the middle and upper classes are attending Magick
 Academies with hopes of entering high-paying sorcerous careers in military or aristocratic service. Many students, however, are drawn by the intellectual challenges of a sorceror's career as much as the financial rewards.\par 
\tab Academic apprenticeship still retains many of the traditional features of private apprenticeship: absolute authority of the masters and instructors of the university, spartan routines of menial tasks, strictly regulated private lives, and so on;
 but the modern sorceror's apprentice spends much more time in study and practice of magickal principles and procedures than does his hedgewizard counterpart.\par 
\tab Also, since most academies are designed to prepare sorcerors for military service, sorceror{\rquote }s apprentices are also drilled in dueling techniques and military applications of magick. An apprentice{\rquote }
s status in a college depends as much on his reputation as a duelist as on his achievements as a student, and graduates of the universities pride themselves on the distinctive scars earned in practice duels and in contests of private honor. \par 
\tab Academics are predominantly of wealthy background, typically born and bred in the city, and notoriously ill-prepared to handle themselves in the outdoors, in lower class settings, or in dealings with the criminal classes.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Beginning Castings for Sorceror\rquote s Apprentices\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Characters taking Sorceror{\rquote }s {A}pprentice as an Initial Career receive the following spells and rituals:\par 
\par 
\tab Detect Magick\par 
\tab Discorporate Flesh\par 
\tab Lesser Pentagram\par 
\tab Summon Elemental Node\par 
\tab Toughen Flesh\par 
\par 
\tab Characters entering the Sorceror{\rquote }s {A}pprentice career from another career receive{s} the Detect Magick spell; other spells must be learned and paid for as described in {\ldblquote }Learning New Spells and Rituals{\rdblquote }, page ??.
\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Resist Magick\tab Rune Lore\par 
Sense Magick\tab Cast Spell/Ritual: Petty\par 
Read/Write\tab Modern Arcane Languages\par 
Elemental Tongue\tab Secret Language: Classical\par 
Ancie{nt Arcane Languages: Arcane Elf\tab }Meditation\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Trappings{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj \par 
Ordinary Hand Weapon\par 
Wizard\rquote s Staff (or a focus of the caster{\rquote }s own design)\par 
1d3 Lesser Artifacts (roll on Random Magick Artifact Table)\par 
Very nice robes\par 
A small magickal reference library, including a personal spell book.\par 
{\v \par 
[[ LIST BOOKS? THEY'RE SO VALUABLE in WFRP...]]\par 
}\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx3600 War Wizard, 1st Degree\tab Daemonologist, 1st Degree\par 
Elementalist, 1st Degree\tab Necromancer, 1st Degree\par 
Mentalist, 1st Degree\tab Alchemist \rquote s Apprentice\par 
Entertainer: Bunko Artist\tab Tomb Robber\par 
Grave Robber\tab Gambler\par 
Runemaster\rquote s Apprentice (Dwarf or Human only)\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Random Magick Artifact Table{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj \tab See the table under {\ldblquote }Hedgewizards{\rdblquote }, above.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tx3600 \par 
\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {Advanced Wizard Careers}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {War Wizard}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab War wizards are the generalists of academic sorcerors, learning castings from many disciplines. 
Because the War Colleges are intended to produce combat support sorcerors, their spells and rituals usually are most appropriate for military applications.\par 
\tab In the Old World most wizards are required by guild custom or state decree to serve in their nation{\rquote }s military. 
Fortunate or well-connected wizards may, through the patronage of nobles, rulers, or guild councilor, obtain posts in the government or in the service of the rich and powerful. Some remain in the academies as
 instructors and researchers; others gain employment in various exploratory and exploitative ventures sponsored by royal and private patrons.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Suitable Player Character Roles\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A few wizards manage though personal wealth or patronage to remain more or less independent, highly educated and skilled gentlemen adventurers. 
A few wizards of modest backgrounds also remain outside polite sorcerous society for one reason or another: marginal academic performance, personal misfortune, powerful enemies, criminal acts, unpopular politics or principles, and so on. 
Such often enlist on dangerous ventures out of desperation or personal obsession.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {The Four Degrees of Wizardry\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The First Degree War Wizard is regarded as a journeyman practitioner of the arcane arts. Most enter military or aristocratic service immediately after graduation from the academy. 
The most studious and creative often remain as instructors and graduate students at the universities. A few receive charters from the guild and the state to pursue private studies or embark upon other speculative ventures.\par 
\tab Second Degree War Wizards must have distinguished themselves in research or service, and generally complete their studies while performing professional duties in the military, in state or aristocratic employment, or in the academies and guilds. 
Few independent sorcerors are able to devote full time to study and research, in the lab and in the field. In addition to any professional duties, Masters are also often obligated to perform various services 
for their guilds, academies, and aristocratic patrons.\par 
\tab Third Degree War Wizards are typically employed at high levels in state and military staff positions, or do research for private and academic concerns. 
At this rank, many sorcerors have also earned enough status in their guilds to achieve considerable independence from the demands of state and academy, and are free to pursue their own interests, typically the amassing of more wealth and power, though adve
nture and knowledge are also important motivations.\par 
\tab The highest positions of power are reserved for Fourth Degree War Wizards: Guild Council, Dean of Colleges, Chancellor of War Magicks, etc. Many are wealthy, powerful nobles in their own right, or in the service of kings and princes. 
On the battlefield and in the offices of power, these magicians directly affect the destinies of the peoples and states of the Old World. In private, most search history, magick
al literature, and experimental procedures for even greater mastery of the arcane arts.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Wizard 1st }Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Hedgewizard or Sorceror{\rquote }s apprentice\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx5040 Cast Spell/Ritual: Battle 1\tab Scroll Lore\par 
Alchemical Lore\tab Identify Magickal Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Arcane Dwarf\tab Cult Lore\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Trappings{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\fi-720\li720 10D6 Gold Coins (earned during the student internship, when the apprentice works under the supervision of a master wizard)\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Wizard, 2nd degree\par 
Other Sorcerous Careers, 1st Degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Wizard 2nd }Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Wizard 1st Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Battle 2\tab Necromantic Lore\par 
Runecraft\tab Evaluate\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Druidic\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Wizard, 3rd degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Wizard 3rd }Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Wizard 2nd Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Battle 3\tab Prepare Poison\par 
Daemon Lore\tab Enchant Lesser Artifact\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Wizard, 4th degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Wizard 4th }Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Wizard 3rd Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Battle 4\tab Enchant Greater Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Daemon Tongue\tab Ancient Arcane Languages: Old Slann\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Advanced Elementalist Careers}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Elementalists are typically mavericks, antisocial and reclusive. 
Their formal and emotional ties to academy and guild are tenuous, and their limited respect for authority and indifference to wealth and status make them difficult to manage in the military or as servants of State and Nobility. 
Nonetheless, Elementalists represent an important magickal resource for their societies. When given considerable freedom of action and judgment, Elementalist have provided valuable military support, particula
rly in sieges, wilderness campaigns, and other special tactical situations, and they have also provided important public works, such as magickally reinforced city defenses and aid during natural disasters. 
For these reasons, rulers and guilds tolerate their independent, eccentric behaviors.\par 
\tab For their parts, in acknowledgment of the considerable freedom granted them, Elementalists are generally quick to answer the summons of academy, guild, and state, and content and cooperative in serving their profession and the public welfare. 
When in study at the Academy, they are quick to hand; when in the field or in private retreat, they leave means for communication in case their services are required. 
A summons can often be swiftly sent through the druids, since Elementalists enjoy a reciprocal respectful and friendly relationship with followers of the Old Faith, and often take shelter with the druids when in study or contemplation in the wilderness.
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Suitable Player Character Roles\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Elementalists are particularly suitable for wilderness and subterranean adventures and campaigns, because of their magickal abilities and their relatively independent social roles in Old World society. 
Though less interested in plunder than other more worldly characters, the elementalist is interested in adventure and magick
al lore, often genuinely concerned about the welfare of all creatures, and dedicated to protecting an adventuring party from evil and unnatural monsters and enemies.\par 
\tab Elementalists also offer rich resources for roleplaying, since their magickal powers are associated with elemental beings that can become important non-player characters in their own right. 
Player and gamemaster have numerous opportunities for establishing the lesser entities as magickal pets and henchmen with distinctive personalities, while the greater entities become perilous and enigmatic patrons, informants, or prickly allies. \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {The Four Degrees of Elementalism\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Higher ranks gain the ability to summon ever-more-powerful elementals, and at higher ranks, Elementalists have greater authority to command rather than entreat service from lesser entities. 
Unlike other academic sorcerors, Elementalists have little interest in precedence or guild, academy, or state politics, and show respect for high-ranking colleagues only in regard of superior achievement, not of superior status.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Elementalist 1st} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Hedgewizard or Sorceror{\rquote }s apprentice\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Elementalist 1\tab Alchemical Lore\par 
Scroll Lore\tab Identify Magickal Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Arcane Dwarf\tab Cult Lore\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Trappings{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\fi-720\li720 10D6 Gold Coins (earned during the student internship, when the apprentice works under the supervision of a master wizard)\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Elementalist, 2nd degree\par 
Other Sorcerous Careers, 1st Degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Elementalist 2nd} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Elementalist 1st Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Elementalist 2\tab Herb Lore\par 
Runecraft\tab Dowsing\par 
Metallurgy\tab Ancient Arcane Languages: Druidic\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Elementalist, 3rd degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Elementalist 3rd} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Elementalist 2nd Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Elementalist 3\tab Enchant Lesser Artifact\par 
Prepare Poison\tab Daemon Lore\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Elementalist, 4th degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Elementalist 4th} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Elementalist 3rd Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Elementalist 4\tab Astronomy\par 
Enchant Greater Artifact\tab Necromantic Lore\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Daemon Tongue\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Advanced Illusionist Careers}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Illusionists specialize in magicks which manipulate the perceptions and emotions of animals and intelligent beings through their aethyrial Spirit organs. 
Illusionists (also known as Mentalists) must therefore have expert understanding of the minds and behaviors of those beings they seek to manipulate. 
As such, Illusionists are typically personable, skilled in social discourse, and comfortable with all sorts of personalities. 
Illusionists are generally personally ambitious, eager to acquire wealth and personal power, socially and politically sophisticated, and skilled in using their charm and understanding of human nature to manipulate others to suit their purposes.\par 
\tab With these personality traits, Illusionists are very successful in military, noble, or state service, often rising quickly to positions of power and authority. 
According to the skill and subtlety with which they practice their charms, they are more or less distrusted by those who employ them, but those who rely on them quickly find them indispensable. 
Illusionists also exert influence on the leaders of guild and academy out of proportion with their numbers. Often from noble or wealthy backgrounds, they also typically receive postings with the rich and powerful. 
In one sense, they have more freedom of action than many other sorcerors, in that status, wealth, and social skills allow them to manipulate their masters to their own ends. 
In another sense, they are the least free in action, since they are reluctant to risk their positions by any unpopular or non-conformist thought or action.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Suitable Player Character Roles\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Illusionists are best suited for urban and diplomatic intrigue, though they are also quite effective in dealings with other races and nationalities on overland ventures. 
Illusionists are typically stereotyped city slicker and haughty aristocrats, expressing disdain for rural hicks and wilderness savages, and lamenting the creature comforts of high society and urban culture.\par 
\tab A few Illusionists are genuine scholars and adventurers, interested more in intellectual pursuits and observations of foreign and alien cultures than in amassing wealth and political power. 
These make excellent player characters, earnest dandies and dilettantes struggling to overcome prejudices against the stereotype of Illusionists while enthusiastically pursuing the enigmas of ancient civilizations and alien cultures.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {The Four Degrees of Mentalism\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
The ranks of Mentalism are identical to the ranks of Wizardry, except that Illusionists reach positions of power and authority in the guild and academy faster than other sorcerors, and receive choice postings to state and noble service. 
Illusionists are typically richer than their colleagues, and dress accordingly, with aristocratic taste and distinction.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Illusionist 1st} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Hedgewizard or Sorceror\rquote s apprentice\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Illusionist 1\tab Alchemical Lore \par 
Scroll Lore\tab Identify Magickal Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Ancient Dwarf\tab Cult Lore\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Trappings{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\fi-720\li720 10D6 Gold Coins (earned during the student internship, when the apprentice works under the supervision of a master wizard)\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Illusionist, 2nd degree\par 
Other Sorcerous Careers, 1st Degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Illusionist 2nd} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Illusionist 1st Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Illusionist 2\tab Hypnotize\par 
Runecraft\tab Ventriloquism\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Druidic\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Illusionist, 3rd degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Illusionist 3rd} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Illusionist 2nd Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Illusionist 3\tab Prepare Poison\par 
Daemon Lore\tab Charm\par 
Enchant Lesser Artifact\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Illusionist, 4th degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Illusionist 4th} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Illusionist 3rd Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Illusionist 4\tab Divining\par 
Enchant Greater Artifact\tab Necromantic Lore\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Daemon Tongue\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Advanced Necromancer Careers}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Necromancers are primarily conceived of as NPC villains, but at the GM\rquote 
s discretion, the study of necromancy may be sanctioned in the setting of your campaign, though strictly regulated and supervised by academy, guild, and ruler, and you may permit academy-trained necromancers as player characters.\par 
\tab Public prejudice, particularly cult opinion, is hostile to necromancers, so they must operate in secret in settled or urban areas, or with the manifest approval and protection of the local rulers or military. 
In rural and wilderness ventures, foreign research and military expeditions, and so on, they may have a less restricted scope of action.\par 
\tab Chartered necromancers generally maintain a cover identity as common war wizards, a disguise easily maintained before the average citizen, but difficult to maintain before other sorcerors and 
knowledgeable laymen, particularly if they are witnesses to necromantic practices.\par 
\tab Historical Note: Necromancy is the most arcane and obscure of the sorcerous arts. Based on poorly understood Slannish, Pharonic, and Dark Elven practices, almost all necromantic spells and rituals are of ancient origin and bewilderingly complex. 
Cult and popular prejudice against necromancers have greatly circumscribed the freedom of modern necromantic studies, but, in any case, the abstruse and demanding nature of the subject matter would discourage all but the most gifted and persistent students
 and practitioners.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Suitable Player Character Roles\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab In settled areas PC necromancers must conceal their identities and abilities from the public. 
Freewheeling players who like to toss spells about at the least provocation will be frustrated in such a role; players who like to play spies and subtle diplomats may be more comfortable. 
In remote rural or wilderness adventures, a necromancer can be less circumspect in throwing his magickal weight around. Who cares if the orcs and giants know you're a necromancer? In fact, it may add to your reputation.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {The Four Degrees of Necromancy\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab At second rank and above necromancers have a distinctive ability to create lasting magickally animated undead as servants, guards, and warriors. 
Outlaw necromancers of these ranks always present the potential of recruiting substantial undead armies. Chartered necromancers are constrained against such behavior by the guilds and academies; therefore, all ranks of c
hartered necromancers must concentrate more on acquisition of information and magickal defenses against outlaw necromancy rather than on creating hoards of undead servitors.\par 
\tab Most necromancers of third and fourth degree are outlaws, and unimpressed by the titles and honors of academic sorcery. 
The oldest, most powerful necromancers of legend (some reputedly over 4000 years old) are probably at the equivalent of tenth or twentieth level compared to fourth degree sorcerors with normal lifespans.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Notes on Necromancy\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Necromancers are unique among sorcerors in that many of their magical powers create long-lasting magickal effects (i.e., undead), and in that most of their tactical power depends on preparing these dead guys ahead of time. 
Otherwise, they are mostly defensive support against necromancer attacks, and also provide a kind of healing support in desperate circumstances. They do have some nasty attack spells derived from their knowledge of magick, the spirit, and the body.\par 
\tab Most necromantic spells are only useful if their effects are long-lasting. Thus, the good spells are rituals which provide for self-powering (spirits that abs
orb aethyrial power) or leave the magickal power inactive until the magickal effect is triggered (i.e., the dead guy stands by the wall inactive until ordered or otherwise triggered, then he leaps into action for 1d6+3 rounds). 
Meat with bound spirits are self-recharging, battery-powered. Quickly animated meat is elemental magick (primarily earth, with a touch of the other elements), and modest in power and duration.\par 
\tab Further, death cultists gain access to cult spells with powers similar to necromantic sorcery with relative ease. Those seeking necromantic power will find the death cult route the path of least resistance.\par 
\tab Nonetheless, there have always been a few sorcerors eager to seek the mysteries of life and death, and loathe to accept the obligations forced upon followers of the death cults. 
The ability to prolong life is the ultimate goal of most such sorcerors; accounts of centuries-old Elven and Dark Elven necromancers are common in the myths and tales of adventurers and fortune-hunters, and those loo
king for evidence of the existence of such elusive figures find much to support it in the arcane manuscript collections of the great magick guilds and universities.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Necromancer 1st} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Hedgewizard or Sorceror\rquote s apprentice\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Necromancer 1\tab Scroll Lore\par 
Alchemical Lore\tab Identify Magickal Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Arcane Dwarf\tab Cult Lore\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Trappings{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\fi-720\li720 10D6 Gold Coins (earned during the student internship, or earned by nefarious deeds)\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Necromancer, 2nd degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Necromancer 2nd} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Necromancer 1st Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Necromancer 2\tab Runecraft\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Druidic\tab Daemon Lore\par 
Prepare Poison\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Necromancer, 3rd degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Necromancer 3rd} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Necromancer 2nd Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Necromancer 3\tab Enchant Lesser Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Daemon Tongue\tab Enchant Lesser Spirit Artifact\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Necromancer, 4th degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Necromancer 4th} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Necromancer 3rd Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Necromancer 4\tab Enchant Greater Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Old Slann\tab Enchant Greater Spirit Artifact\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
{\v\fs28 {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\b\fs28 Advanced Daemonologist Careers}}}{\b\fs28 \par 
}\tab Daemonologists are primarily conceived of as NPC villains, but at the GM\rquote 
s discretion, the study of daemonology may be sanctioned in the setting of your campaign, though strictly regulated and supervised by academy, guild, and ruler, and you may permit academy-trained daemonologists as player characters.\par 
\tab Public prejudice, particularly cult opinion, is hostile to daemonologists, so they must operate in secret in settled or urban areas, or with the manifest approval and protection of the local rulers or military. 
In rural and wilderness ventures, foreign research and military expeditions, and so on, they may have a less restricted scope of action.\par 
\tab 
Chartered daemonologists generally maintain a cover identity as common war wizards, a disguise easily maintained before the average citizen, but difficult to maintain before other sorcerors and knowledgeable laymen, particularly if there are witnesses to 
daemonological practices.\par 
\tab The guilds and academies provide a very specific list of Daemons permitted to be summoned. Daemonologists fooling around with non-approved daemons are likely to end up pursued by bounty hunters, locked in deep dungeons, or dangling from a gibbet. 
The whole notion of sanctioning the study of daemonology is to provide defenses against its abuse by alien and evil spellcasters and divines, not to proliferate their numbers with college-trained daemon-summoners.\par 
\tab There are good daemons and neutral daemons that may be safely dealt with, and evil daemons to be exorcised and defended against. 
It may also be permitted to fight fire with fire in extreme circumstances, though daemonologists will have received careful instructions and guidelines about dealing with evil daemons, even in a commanding fashion. \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Suitable Player Character Roles\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab In settled areas PC necromancers must conceal their identities and abilities from the public. 
Freewheeling players who like to toss spells about at the least provocation will be frustrated in such a role; players who like to play spies and subtle diplomats may be more comfortable.\par 
\tab In remote rural or wilderness adventures, a necromancer can be less circumspect in throwing his magickal weight around. Who cares if the orcs and giants know you\rquote re a necromancer? In fact, it may add to your reputation.\par 
\tab In civilized areas you can\rquote t openly display your magickal abilities, which takes a lot of the fun out of spellcasting. 
Freewheeling players who like to toss spells about at the least provocation will be frustrated in such a role; players who like sneaking around, mystery-solving, roleplaying, and using magick
 abilities only when others can't identify them should be happy enough.\par 
\tab On the other hand, in a remote rural or wilderness campaign one can play the heavy against the heathen and monstrous hosts. In the Great Forests and the Chaos Wastes you\rquote ll find plenty of room to work, and plenty of work to do.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {The Four Degrees of Daemonology\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab At the higher ranks of daemonology, the daemonic beings dealt with are increasingly powerful and intractable. Generally only pow
er-mad or fanatic individuals will choose to face such risks; as a result, one observes that the higher the level, the less stable and sane the daemonologist. 
Even daemonologists of the highest principles and virtue tend to become more and more bizarre and psychotic as they advance in rank. 
Some who feel themselves losing their grip are wise enough to abandon further daemonic studies and shift to another sorcerous specialty. Others manage to retain the purity of their objectives, but tend to lose judgmen
t and perspective concerning the means justifiable to achieve their ends.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Daemonologist 1st} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Hedgewizard or Sorceror\rquote s apprentice\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Daemonologist 1\tab Scroll Lore\par 
Alchemical Lore\tab Identify Magickal Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Daemon Tongue\tab Cult Lore\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Trappings{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\fi-720\li720 10D6 Gold Coins (earned during the student internship, or earned by nefarious deeds)\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Daemonologist, 2nd degree\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Daemonologist 2nd} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Daemonologist 1st Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Daemonologist 2\tab Runecraft\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Druidic\tab Necromantic Lore\par 
Prepare Poison\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Daemonologist, 3rd degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Daemonologist 3rd} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Daemonologist 2nd Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Daemonologist 3\tab Enchant Lesser Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Arcane Dwarf\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Daemonologist, 4th degree\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Daemonologist 4th} Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Daemonologist 3rd Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Cast Spell/Ritual: Daemonologist 4\tab Enchant Greater Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Old Slann\tab Enchant Daemon Artifact\par 
\pard \qj\tx4680 \par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Basic and Advanced Alchemist Careers}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Common opinion regards alchemists as a sub-discipline of Sorcery. Indeed, the various Colleges of Alchemy enjoy equal status with the other sorcerous Colleges of War Wizardry, Elementalism, and Mentalism.\par 
\tab However, alchemists traditionally have regarded themselves as Philosophers, rather than Sorcerors. Philosophical Alchemists study and practice their craft primarily in pursu
it of knowledge and enlightenment, and are more interested in the purity of their spirits than in the might of their magickal powers. Sorcerors, according to alchemists, are mere technicians, craftsmen and artisans at best,
 interested in the study of arcane powers simply for the wealth and power derived from the practice of magick.\par 
\tab Nonetheless, alchemical compounds have many practical applications, and the modern Old World alchemist is as likely to pursue Wealth and Power as he is to pursue Perfect Knowledge. Thus the magick
 guilds and academies recognize two types of alchemist: Pragmatic Alchemists and Philosophical Alchemists.\par 
\tab Pragmatic Alchemists recognize the economic, social, military, and political importance of the magickal compounds they produce. Some wish to serve society with their skills. 
Some wish to exploit their power over society to bring them status, wealth, and influence. Some are interested in a secure, financially rewarding scholarly career. Many are self-absorbed scholarly gadgeteers, fascinated by the magick
al powers they command, and ever-willing to experiment in hopes of producing some even-more prodigious and dazzling magickal effects.\par 
\tab Philosophical Alchemists are interested in the Mysteries of Spirit and Matter for their own sake. Their ultimate aims are to achieve a rapture of the intellect, a divine, mystical communion with the True Nature of Being. The magick
al compounds they are skilled in producing are of little interest to them, other than as a source of revenue and patronage for their esoteric alchemical studies.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Suitable Player Character Roles\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Pragmatic Alchemist: player characters are often either gimmick-happy mad scientists or hard-nosed entrepreneurs and mercenary adventurers. The toy-mad Pragmatics love spectacular magick
 effects (explosions in particular) for their own sake. They tend to have few social or real-life skills, and little interest in the outside world, preferring to dabble in their labs until all hours, mixing Beastman hair with Fugacious Air and Fu
lminate of Orpiment, \ldblquote just to see what happens\rdblquote . 
They often make fabulous wages working for the military or for noble patrons, and when present on the battlefield or on wilderness adventures, they must be carefully watched to make sure they don\rquote t wander into mischief or deadly peril. 
(Such Pragmatic PCs resemble real-world computer hacker stereotypes in personality.) Hard-nosed entrepreneur Pragmatics are often experienced treasure hunters or skilled mercenaries, employing their magickal abilities much like sorceror PCs.\par 
\tab Philosophical Alchemist: player characters tend to be peaceable, self-absorbed scholar-mystics, absent-minded visionary wise-men with a touch of Merlin and Gandalf the Grey. 
Their pursuits of esoteric knowledge carry them throughout the World, in long, itinerant journeys in the company of gypsies and pilgrims along the highways and sea lanes of the Old World. 
Shelter and scholarly fellowship can be found in secret society chapters in all major Old World cities, and the search for rare magickal substances takes the Philosopher to the remote wild and desolate regions of the World. 
Philosophical Alchemists are typically of strong Good alignment; when civilization is threatened by evil or chaotic powers, they nobly and absent-mindedly march off to war.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Alchemist\rquote s Apprentices\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Apprentices are selected by Guild test or by private tests of a prospective master. While in attendance at an academy or studying with a Master, apprentices are busy learning the preparation of Petty Compounds and Comm
on Reagents, as well as tending the labs and running errands for their Masters, and may have little time for adventuring or personal pursuits. 
However, Masters often grant periods of leave (usually at the convenience of the Master), or may make the services of an apprentice available for a short period to a sovereign or to an adventurer or entrepreneur.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {The Four Degrees of Philosophical Alchemy\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab At each of the four Advanced Ranks of Alchemy (Craft, Master, Select, Grand) an alchemist learns different compound formulae and alchemical operations. 
The compounds and operations permitted to the various ranks are determined by the Alchemist Guild, and the practice of alchemical operations or the preparation of compounds prohibited to one\rquote s rank by the Alchemist\rquote 
s Guild is an offense punishable by censure and expulsion from the Guild and a treasonous offense against the state, punishable by execution or exile. Renegade a
lchemists cannot be stripped of their knowledge, but cut off from sources of components and information, they usually present only a modest threat to society.\par 
\tab Advanced Alchemists also learn to cast certain spells and rituals. The magick effects of these spells and rituals are identical to spells and rituals learned by the War Wizard, Elementalist, and Mentalist Colleges of Sorcerors. 
Alchemists learn spells and rituals in the same way that sorcerors learn spells and rituals.\par 
\tab However, Alchemists produce spell and ritual effects, not by drawing magickal energy from the Void through their own spirit, but by releasing the magickal energy locked in certain compounds. 
For this reason, Alchemists require 1d6+3 rounds to cast all spells and rituals alike. Thus, though Alchemists can produce spell effects, they cannot produce them so quickly as can sorcerors, and as such, are of little use in a magick
al duel or melee combat. Note also that Alchemists may learn from a selection of fewer spells and rituals than those available to Sorcerors. (See below for lists of the spells and rituals an Alchemist may learn at each Advanced Rank.)\par 
\tab Advanced Alchemist PCs of Ranks 1-4 have the same Advance Schemes as Advanced Sorceror Careers 1-4.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Alchemist\rquote s Apprentice\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Alchemical Lore\tab Modern Arcane Languages\par 
Prepare Petty Compounds\tab Prepare Common Reagents\par 
Read/Write\tab Sense Magick\par 
Resist Magick\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Trappings{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\fi-720\li720 1 basic portable alchemist\rquote s lab (2 large 50kg chests when carefully packed; covers four tabletops when deployed)\par 
10D6 Gold Coins (earned during the student internship or apprenticeship)\par 
1 of each of the compounds for which the formula is known (see below)\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Sorceror\rquote s Apprentice\tab Alchemist, Rank 1\par 
\pard \qj \par 
Beginning Alchemical Formulae For Alchemist\rquote s Apprentices\par 
\tab Characters taking Alchemist\rquote s Apprentice as an Initial Career receive 1d6+3 alchemical formulae chosen at random using the following table. Roll 1d100 to select formulae; if a roll i
ndicates a formula already selected, roll again until the proper number of formulae are selected.\par 
\tab Characters entering the Alchemist\rquote s Apprentice career from another career receive one formula chosen randomly from the following list; other formulae must be learned and paid for as described in \ldblquote Learning New Alchemical Formulae
\rdblquote , page ??.\par 
\par 
\tab 01-20\tab Fulminate of Sal Armoniac\par 
\tab 21-40\tab Soot Punk\par 
\tab 41-45\tab Tincture of NightEye\par 
\tab 46-50\tab Incense of GraveScent\par 
\tab 51-55\tab Incense of [Specific] BeastScent\par 
\tab 56-60\tab Incense of [Specific] MonsterScent\par 
\tab 61-65\tab Unguent of Phlegethon\par 
\tab 66-70\tab Tincture of Hercules Woundwort\par 
\tab 71-75\tab Bromide of Toxin Antidote\par 
\tab 76-80\tab Bromide of Deleriant Antidote\par 
\tab 81-85\tab Bromide of Venom Antidote\par 
\tab 86-90\tab Tincture of BeastHearing\par 
\tab 91-95\tab Tincture of BeastSmell\par 
\tab 96-00\tab Unguent of Burnbalm\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Alchemist} 1st Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Alchemist Apprentice\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Prepare Craft Compounds\tab Cast Spells/Rituals: Alchemist Petty\par 
Manufacture Poisons\tab Rune Lore\par 
Metallurgy\tab Chemistry\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Alchemist Rank 2\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Alchemist} 2nd Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Alchemist 1st Rank\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Prepare Master Compounds\tab Prepare Extraordinary Reagents\par 
Cast Spells/Rituals: Alchemist 1\tab Herb Lore\par 
Identify Plants\tab Manufacture Gas Bombs\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Arcane Dwarf\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Alchemist, Rank 3\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Alchemist} 3rd Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Alchemist 2nd Rank\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Prepare Select Compounds\tab Prepare True Elements\par 
Cast Spells/Rituals: Alchemist 2\tab Identify Magickal Artifact\par 
Ancient Arcane Languages: Arcane Elf\tab Spawn Homunculi\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Alchemist, Rank 4\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Alchemist} 4th Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Alchemist 3rd Rank\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Prepare Great Works\tab Enchant Lesser Artifact\par 
Cast Spells/Rituals: Alchemist 3\tab Prepare Grand Compounds\par 
Arcane Druid\tab Runecraft\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Alchemist Spells and Rituals Lists}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Note: Spells like Vaporbloom, Fireball, Lightning, and Freeze Mind rely on speed and surprise for effective use in melee combat. Sorcerors can cast these spells in one round. Alchemists, who require seve
ral rounds to cast these spells, must rely on stealth or careful planning to use such spells effectively against an opponent.\par 
\par 
Petty Alchemist Spells and Rituals\par 
\tab Detect Magick (Petty, page ??)\par 
\tab Bond Elements (Petty, page ??)\par 
\tab Perceive Spirit (Petty, page ??)\par 
\tab Voidsend Message (Petty, page ??)\par 
\tab Lesser Pentagram (Petty, page ??)\par 
\tab Summon Node (Petty, page ??)\par 
\tab Toughen Flesh (Petty, page ??)\par 
\tab Conjure Vaporbloom (Petty, page ??)\par 
\par 
Rank 1 Alchemist Spells and Rituals\par 
\tab Accelerate Flesh (War Wizard 1, page ??)\par 
\tab Accelerate Healing (War Wizard 1, page ??)\par 
\tab Fireball (War Wizard 1, page ??)\par 
\tab Command Victim (War Wizard 1, page ??)\par 
\tab Toxicbloom (War Wizard 1, page ??)\par 
\tab Conjure Wind (War Wizard 1, page ??)\par 
\tab Stimulate Muscle (War Wizard 1, page ??)\par 
\par 
Rank 2 Alchemist Spells and Rituals\par 
\tab Abjure Earth Bond (War Wizard 2, page ??)\par 
\tab Conjure Lightning (War Wizard 2, page ??)\par 
\tab Conjure Mist (War Wizard 2, page ??)\par 
\tab Inspire Heroism (War Wizard 2, page ??)\par 
\tab Precipitate Plasm (War Wizard 2, page ??)\par 
\tab Extinguish Fire (Elemental 2, page ??)\par 
\tab Resist Fire (Elemental 2, page ??)\par 
\par 
\pard \qj Rank 3 Alchemist Spells and Rituals\par 
\pard \qj \tab Corrosionbloom (War Wizard 3, page ??)\par 
\tab Lungfirebloom (War Wizard 3, page ??)\par 
\tab Darken Reflection (War Wizard 3, page ??)\par 
\tab Destabilize Void Membrane (War Wizard 3, page ??)\par 
\tab Enchant Lesser Weapon (War Wizard 3, page ??)\par 
\tab Enchant Lesser Armor (War Wizard 3, page ??)\par 
\tab Ensorcel Mind (War Wizard 3, page ??)\par 
\tab Freeze Mind (War Wizard 3, page ??)\par 
\tab Precipitate Plasm Bridge (War Wizard 3, page ??)\par 
\tab Voidlink Message (War Wizard 3, page ??)\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Basic and Advanced Runemaster Careers}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj\fi720 \f16\fs20 {Runemasters }comprise most of{ the mages of Dwarven society. While most Human and E
lven wizards rely on the interactions between Words of Power and Spell Runes to work their magick, Runemasters focus almost entirely on the runic aspect of sorcery.\par 
Most Dwarves follow warrior or smithing careers, but certain Dwarves interested in magick will undergo apprenticeship to an established Runemaster. 
These Runemasters act as guardians for the knowledge of the Dwarven race, and a select few are dedicated to transcribing permanent copy of their sciences and placing powerful protective magicks upon 
them, preparing for the day when the Dwarven race at last crumbles and they must pass on their knowledge to their human allies.\par 
Most Runemasters take an active role in Dwarven communities, acting as counselors, advisors, wise men, and judges.  In times of war, they are often seen on the front lines, using the}ir{ more destructive spells to }aid{ the warriors. 
Occasionally, a Runemaster will leave the Dwarven lands and travel amongst the humans, passing on and gathering what knowledge he can.  These Runemasters often fit the second stage of the \ldblquote wandering Dwarf\rdblquote  syndrome (see \ldblquote 
Cult of Grommo\rdblquote , }{\ul Divine Magick}{, page ??).\par 
}\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Beginning Castings for Runemaster\rquote s Apprentices\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Characters taking Runemaster\rquote s {A}pprentice as an Initial Career receive the following spells and rituals:\par 
\par 
\tab Detect Magick\par 
\tab Lesser Circle\par 
\tab Powerlink Artifact\par 
\tab Smooth Stone Surface\par 
\tab Toughen Flesh\par 
\par 
\tab Characters entering the Runemaster\rquote s {A}pprentice career from another career receive the Powerlink Artifact spell; other spells must be learned and paid for as described in {\ldblquote }Learning New Spells and Rituals{\rdblquote }, page ??.
\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Prepare Blacksilver\tab Invoke Inscriptions: Petty\par 
Inscribe Runes: Wood\tab Secret Signs: Rune Sigils\par 
Resist Magick\tab Rune Lore\par 
Read/Write\tab Modern Arcane Languages\par 
Ancie{nt Arcane Languages: Arcane }Dwarven{\tab }Meditation\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Trappings{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Ordinary Hand Weapon (typically a warhammer or hand axe)\par 
Stone Inscriptions for each casting known\par 
1d3 Lesser Artifacts (roll on Random Magick Artifact Table)\par 
Divining Runes\par 
Equipment for preparing blacksilver\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx3600 Runemaster, 1st Degree\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Random Magick Artifact Table{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj \tab See the table under {\ldblquote }Hedgewizards{\rdblquote }, above.\par 
\pard \qj\tx3600 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Runemaster 1st Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Runemaster\rquote s Apprentice\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Inscribe Runes: Stone\tab Invoke Inscriptions: Runemaster 1st\par 
Smithing\tab Sense Magick\par 
Metallurgy\tab Scroll Lore\par 
Secret Language: Battle\tab Secret Language: Classical\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Runemaster, Rank 2\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Runemaster 2nd Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Runemaster 1st Rank\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Inscribe Runes: Metal*\tab Identify Magickal Artifact\par 
Invoke Inscriptions: Runemaster 2nd\tab Daemon Lore\par 
Engineering\tab Stoneworking\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Runemaster, Rank 3\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Runemaster 3rd Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Runemaster 2nd Rank\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Inscribe Runes: Magickal\tab Enchant Lesser Artifact\par 
Invoke Inscriptions: Runemaster 3rd\tab Public Speaking\par 
Specialist Weapon: Two-Handed\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Career Exits{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Runemaster, Rank 4\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Runemaster 4th Rank{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Prerequisite Career{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj Runemaster 3rd Rank\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tqr\tx8640 Skills{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Inscribe Runes: Viscous\tab Enchant Greater Artifact\par 
\pard \qj\tx4320 Invoke Inscriptions: Runemaster 4th\tab Sense Runes\par 
}