{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f14 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\f14 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}}{\info}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\fracwidth \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain \s243\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f14 Realms of Sorcery\tab Color Text\tab Page \chpgn \par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f14 \par 
{\fs28 Testing Academy Applicants for Sorcerous Potential\par 
}\pard \qj \tab The academies and guilds jointly administer public examinations once a year at the larger centers of magickal learning. In addition, the sovereign may request private examinations on behalf of loyal servants of the Crown (typically done 
when military requirements for wizards increase). Any wizard of 3rd rank or higher may request a private examination for a sponsored applicant; such sponsorships are often expensive, and conveniently available only to the wealthy and noble-born. 
Not all wizards are greedy, however; an earnest and talented applicant can always hope to come to the attention of one of the more public-minded and dedicated 3rd rank wizards.\par 
\pard \qj \tab Applicants are powerlinked to an artifact which draws magickal energy from the subject and transforms it into radiant light. 
Applicants who cannot illuminate the artifact at least five times in sequence are not considered for academic apprenticeship.\par 
\pard \qj \tab Applicants are Powerlinked to an artifact which summons earth nodes. Over a series of days the applicant is taught how to control the node with the aid of an instructor. At the end of the training period, the applicant is tested. 
The applicant must successfully control the node to perform a simple task at least 2 out of six times in order to qualify.\par 
\pard \qj \tab Applicants are tested for orthographic, oral, and aural skills, and mental symbolic recognition, recall, and reasoning.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
{\fs28 The Grand Tutor Welcomes Incoming Apprentices}\par 
\tab \ldblquote What is magick?\par 
\tab \ldblquote Energy. And Form.\par 
\tab \ldblquote Power. And Discipline.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote Aethyr, the raw stuff of arcane energy, is drawn from the Void\'c9 from Chaos\'c9 through the Animus, the anchor linking your Soul to your Mind, an umbilical cord reaching from the Material Universe to the Universe of Chaos. 
The Soul in Chaos accumulates the energy and transmits it through the Animus to the Mind.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote But within the Mind of the sorceror this magickal energy must be given Form, must submit to the patternings of discipline. Without Form, without discipline, aethyr is not magick, only the potential of magick.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote There are three primary Disciplines with which the mind of the sorceror gives Form to Aethyr to produce Magick.\par 
\tab \ldblquote The first discipline is the Word. Through the symbology of incantation the Mind shapes the aethyr.\par 
\tab \ldblquote The second discipline is the Rune. Through the symbology of runes the Mind shapes the aethyr.\par 
\tab \ldblquote The third discipline is Mental Focus. Through the patterns of thought and imagination the Mind shapes the aethyr.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote In addition there are the other secondary disciplines that further refine and shape the aethyr in producing magick. Color, for example, is a powerful tool for distinguishing and ordering certain types of aethyrial energy. 
Elemental Structure, the patternings and properties of substances with arcane natures, is another important element in properly shaping aethyrial forces into the desired magick effects.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote All of these disciplines: the three Primary Disciplines, Word, Rune, and Mental Focus, and the various Secondary Disciplines, must be mastered before you can call yourselves sorcerors. All of 
you have shown great promise, as is abundantly illustrated by your selection to study at this great University.\par 
\tab \ldblquote However, just as aethyr is not magick, as undisciplined energy is not sorcery, neither is your great promise any more than a dream of your potential. 
If you cannot give form to your magickal talents, if you cannot mold yourselves to the demanding disciplines of our art, then you must fail as sorcerors.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote Your failure must be seen as as great a tragedy as the pathetic horrors of undisciplined magicks seen in the twisted mutants of the Great Forest, and the perverted corruption of the Servants of Chaos.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote But, tragic as your failure might be, you can expect no compassion from me,
 or any of the Tutors, or Instructors, or Graduates. For promise spoiled is to us as repulsive as the defilements of Chaos, and as eagerly cleansed from our society by those of us that honor Form and Discipline.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote Make no mistake. Your way here is hard. If you would make your way here among us, be good and eager students, mind your instructors, and bend yourselves to your lessons with a will.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote But if you seek Power here, without accepting the burden of Discipline, expect no mercy from us. We will weed you out like the unclean mutants, and cast you out from us with a will.\rdblquote \par 
\pard \qj \tab \emdash  from a speech by the Grand Tutor to successful applicants upon their acceptance as apprentices to the Zauberkollegium Altdorf\par 
\pard \qj \par 
{\fs28 The Pious Apprentice Offended by the Term "Chaos"}{\fs28 \par 
}\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote \'c9 And, of course, the source of the universe and all things in it is chaos.\rdblquote \par 
\tab (A shocked, outraged exclamation of \ldblquote Blasphemy!\rdblquote  escapes from the lips of a student in the first row of the lecture hall.)\par 
\pard \qj \tab Tutor Klatzen wheels impatiently from his diagrams scrawled on the tabula illuminare and grimaces contemptuously at the outburst. \ldblquote Come now. This is a place of learning. You must learn to use the word \lquote chaos\rquote 
 as scholars do, not as a reflexive curse or profanity.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote Chaos is Chance. The fundamental structure of the universe is Chance; the Chance that anything might exist.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote Of course, what makes our universe interesting and useful to us is that a structure has been imposed on this chance to produce\'c9 (rapping firmly on the wall behind him)\'c9 the world we know and love.\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote Chaos, the universe beyond the void boundary\'c9 the source of all the boojums, nightmares, and horrors we terrify little children with\'c9 is simply Chance without the blessings of structure. Anything can happen there, and does,
 and often in a distressing and distasteful manner. (Peering thoughtfully at the student in the front row:) Not unlike the mind of Master Jurgen here, yes?\rdblquote \par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
{\b\fs28 Great Figures of Sorcery\par 
}\pard \qj \tab (Textbook-like thumbnail sketches of great historical figures in modern sorcery. Sketches suggest both representative life backgrounds of sorcerors and colorful notions about the science and technology of magick.)\par 
\pard \qj \par 
{\ul Diego Hurtado de Mendoza: Pioneer of Casting Damper Enchantments\par 
}\pard \qj \tab 
Hurtado, a 24th Century Estalian hedgewizard and academic sorceror, developed the principles of an enchantment which permitted a magickal instructor to immediately terminate the errant castings of pupils practicing new and unfamiliar spells and rituals.
\par 
\pard \qj \tab Previously both tutor and pupil risked injury from miscastings during the lengthy period of learning and perfecting knowledge and procedures of new spells and rituals
. Consequently tutor and pupil were often reluctant to undertake learning of new disciplines, and many skilled sorcerors and gifted apprentices were regrettably maimed or killed in educational mishaps.\par 
\pard \qj \tab Hurtado's enchantment, the {\i casting damper} ritual, provides for an immediate interruption in the flow of aethyrial energy channeled to produce a magickal effect through castings. Thus an instructor may instantly interrupt a magickal
 effect at the least indication of a faulty casting.\par 
\tab The {\i casting damper} is expensive in energy and reagents, requiring casters of the 3rd or 4th rank and aethyr salts in great quantities. However, such are happily within th
e resources of the modern academies, and the consequent efficiency and safety in teaching and learning new spells and rituals more than compensates for the expense.\par 
\pard \qj \tab Hurtado was among the first to receive the Cassicus Magica from the Academia Magica for {\i casting damper} enchantment. Though
 openly reluctant to develop military applications of his enchantment, he pursued such research at the order of his sovereign. 
The tragic "accident" resulting in his death has sometimes been viewed as an ethical suicide in protest of the persistent interference of belligerent princes in the academic study of magick. To date, no military application of Hurtado's
 cumbersome and expensive enchantments have proved practical on the battlefield.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
{\fs28 Sample NPC Wizards and Alchemists\par 
}\pard \qj \tab Fillers with illustrations, complete with compact, tiny-type stats, illustrating the types of sorcerors and alchemist encountered in the Old World. For example:\par 
\pard \qj \tab \bullet  a village hedgewizard (a common NPC encountered in defense of a village from Chaos spawn and nasty villains)\par 
\tab \bullet  an adventuring hedgewizard (a model of an itinerant hedgewizard seeking his fortune on the paths and byways of the Old World)\par 
\tab \bullet  a general staff war wizard (an NPC locked into his military role, but available as an informant or patron)\par 
\tab \bullet  a young veteran war wizard (detached for service with road wardens units patrolling the borders and roads of the Great forest)\par 
\pard \qj \tab \bullet  an itinerant Elven entertainer and illusionist (fraud and mountebank)\par 
\pard \qj \tab \bullet 
 a promising apprentice sorceror (a rude rural youth sent to the Big City Guild by a wealthy local noble patron to be tested for admittance into the Academy, with the understanding that upon graduation from the Academy, the fellow would return to serve hi
s patron as a magick support specialist for his patron's house guard)\par 
}