{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Character Profile;}{\s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext2 Chapter Heading;}{\s3\qj \b\f16 
\sbasedon0\snext3 Section Heading;}{\s4\qj \f16 \sbasedon3\snext4 Subsection Heading;}{\s5\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext5 GM Notes;}}{\info}\widowctrl\ftnbj\pgnstart0\fracwidth {\*\nextfile perv.gov:Undead}\sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere 
{\footer \pard\plain \s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 Realms of Sorcery\tab Elementals\tab Page {\chpgn }\par 
}\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 Elementals}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Overview of Elementals\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Elementals are the material manifestations of aethyrial beings associated with the four Elemental Domains of the Warhammer world: fire, air, water, and earth. Elementals are the active principles u
nderlying material substance. Without elementals, fire, air, water, and earth would be static, immobile, and unchanging throughout time. Thus, all natural processes would cease, and Warhammer World would become barren and lifeless.\par 
\tab Elemental beings are commonly known in the Old World as elemental sprites, or elementals, or sprites. Sorcerors also refer to sprites as Old Faith daemons, though 
the term daemon, while technically accurate in this context, has negative associations, and is usually avoided except in scholarly discussions. \par 
\tab Elementals of the Domain of Air are called aeronomes, or air sprites. 
Aeronomes are impulsive, playful, and easily-distracted, swift in action and wit, and generally benign in dealing with men, but their flighty behavior makes them frustrating and unreliable servants.\par 
\tab Elementals of the Domain of Water are called hydronomes, or water sprites. Hydronomes are sensible, steady and deliberate in personality, and usually faithful and reliable in service, though they are on 
occasion cruel and dispassionately violent in dealing with men. \par 
\tab Elementals of the Domain of Fire are called pyronomes, or fire sprites. Pyronomes vary from mischievous to malevolent in disposition, quick and shrewd in wit, but deceitful and unpredictable in service. 
Unfortunately, their energetic and imaginative enthusiasm for destructive activities suit them well for military application.\par 
\tab Elementals of the Domain of Earth are called geonomes, or earth sprites. Geonomes are the most faithful and reliable of elemental servants, strong and durable, but slow in thought and action.\par 
\tab There are five major classifications of elemental beings: elemental nodes, least elementals (also known as elemental servants), lesser elementals, greater elementals, and wisentlich (also known as elemental rulers). 
All may be summoned by sorcerors according to the elemental pacts. See below for detailed descriptions of each of these major classifications of elementals. See Chapter {6}
: Forms and Summonings, page ??, for rules concerning summoning elementals. See the {\i summon elemental node}, {\i summon least elemental}, {\i summon lesser elemental}, {\i summon greater elemental}, and {\i summon wisentlich} ri
tuals for castings which summon elementals.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 The Essential Nature of Elemental Sprites\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The Sprites of Earth, Air, Fire, and Water are magickal beings of the Aethyr, as are the daemons magickal beings of the Void. 
However, as daemons are manifestations of the Principles of Chaos, elemental sprites are manifestations of the Principles of Nature.\par 
\tab The Principles of Chaos are reflections of the minds and spirits of the Higher Consciousness tainted by Chaos, as represented by the soul essences of the Elder Races: the civilized Slann, Elf, Dwarf, and Human races, for example. 
The Principles of Nature, on the other hand, are reflections of Higher Consciousness untouched by Chaos, represented by the more primal soul essences of plants, animals, and the ancestral cultures of the humanoid races.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Sprites and the Earth Mother{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Elemental sprites are also known to as \ldblquote The Children of the Earth\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Servants of the Earth Mother\rdblquote . Whether this is meant to be taken literally is unclear f
rom existing evidences of divine and scholarly texts. Sorcerous tradition holds that the elemental sprites are subsidiary daemons of the Earth Mother, in much the same way that Bloodletters and Fleshhounds are subsidiary daemons of the Chaos God Khorne. 
Druidic teaching deny this, asserting that elemental sprites are independent entities, while simultaneously insisting that the elemental sprites were literally born as the children of the Earth Mother. 
Regardless of the exact doctrinal position one takes on this matter, there is clearly a close but undefinable relationship between the Earth Mother and the elemental sprites.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Origins of the Elemental Sprites{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab As daemons and gods are theorized to have been created in the Warp by the coalescing elements of dead souls, so might the elemental sprites have been born as the collective expression of deceased spirits of the earth. 
However, elemental sprites are more closely akin to the Earth Mother, and take their forms and personalities from elemental manifestations, plants, animals, and ancestral humanoid beings that precede the influence of Chaos upon Warhammer World. 
Daemonic beings, by contrast, reflect the taint of Chaos in the minds of the higher mortal beings; as such, they are dream beings of potent, warped, and unnatural character.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 The Elemental Pacts{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab In time before memory, the First Men worshipped elementals as gods. In this forgotten past, men and elementals bound themselves to the Elemental Pacts, agreements which determined the conditions under which men
 might call upon elementals for service. Since that time, sorcerors and priests of the Old Faith have summoned elementals to perform tasks in response to ritual payments of magickal power. 
These ancient Elemental Pacts are the foundations of the understandings between sorcerors, divine spellcasters, and elementals which permit ritual summonings.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Elemental Sprite Forms and Effigies}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The variety of elemental sprite forms is infinite, as is the variety of daemonic forms. However, the most familiar elemental sprite forms are reflections of the cultures that summon them. 
Rune-inscribed effigies are essential trappings for ritual summonings, and the form summoned depends on the effigy used. For reliability and standardization, academic sorcerors work with a limited number of conventional forms. 
Hedgewizards may be more likely to employ unusual variants. Primitive divine conjurers may summon unique unconventional forms associated with their cult beliefs.\par 
\tab In form and personality sprites commonly reflect the beliefs and emotions of the spirits of the ancestral peoples from which the sprites\rquote  natures are derived. 
As such, sprite forms are often either a stylized and dramatic manifestation of the elemental force itself (e.g., dust devil, waves, flames, or boulder), a totemic animal (e.g., fox, eagle, snake), a mythical beast or monster (e.g.
, unicorn, pegasus, dragon), or a heroic archetype of an ancestral humanoid culture (e.g., warrior, wise woman, shaman).\par 
\tab Though sprites are magickal beings, when summoned their forms are as substantial as natural beings of the Material Realm; that is, they are as solid and substantial as the casters who summon them. They cannot be harmed without magick
al or True-Silvered weapons, however, because of the aethyrial component of their substance which gives them their magickal nature.\par 
\tab Elemental summoning rituals indicate the specific form a summoning is to take through the use of a clay or stone effigy. When the sprite appears in response to the summoning ritual, it inhabits and mimics the form represented by the effigy.\par 
\tab {\ul Conventional Elemental Forms}: Most sorcerous and divine summoners of elemental sprites employ conventional forms in their summoning rituals, that is, they summon sprites from a relatively limited selection of traditional and reliable forms. 
The elemental forms described in this chapter are examples of these conventional forms. Use of conventional forms insures that a sprite of fairly predictable powers and personality will appear.\par 
\tab {\ul Unconventional Elemental Forms}: Use of unconventional forms when summoning an elemental sprite risks failure of the ritual, or manifestation of an unformed, new-birthed elemental:
 typically a dangerous expedient, since new-birthed elementals often resemble Chaos daemons, and may in fact be Chaos-inspired beings.\par 
\tab {\ul Variant Sprite Forms}: Players and gamemasters will probably want to design elemental forms to fit their own campaigns (and their miniatures collections). Players should discuss new forms they\rquote 
d like to summon with the GM before they want to summon them, not during a game session. GMs should use the descriptions and profiles given here as guidelines for approving or disapproving new sprite forms. 
Special abilities should be limited in power; however, whenever a player requests a special ability that is short on game-mechanics power but long on dramatic color, it should be encouraged.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Summoning Unconventional Sprite Forms}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab If a sorceror wishes to summon an unconventional form of an elemental sprite, he must create an effigy to be used in the ritual. \par 
\tab First, the effigy must be created and inscribed with appropriate runes. Then the caster must attempt to summon an elemental using the unconventional form's effigy.\par 
\tab Test vs. Runecraft skill; a failed test indicates immediate failure of the ritual. If the Runecraft test is successful, use the following table to determine the outcome of the summoning:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qc \f16 {\b Unconventional Form Success/Failure Chart\par 
}\pard\plain \qc \f16\fs20 (roll 1d100 and see below)\par 
\par 
\pard \qj \tab 01-05: Success: Something similar to what was intended appears. (GM: Consider the player\rquote s request for appropriate spirit and balance of power with other elementals summonable with the ritual. Scale down overly 
ambitious requests; reward modest and in-character requests with nice fringe benefits. Your guiding principles should be that greed and megalomania cloud the caster\rquote s judgment
 and often result in mistakes and failures, while modest requests reflect cautious, prudent procedures which are more likely to succeed.)\par 
\tab 06-10: Partial Success: something completely unsuitable but fairly innocuous appears.\par 
\tab 11-95: Fortunate Failure: No summoning appears. (This is the standard result with unfamiliar magickal practices.)\par 
\tab 96-00: Unfortunate Failure: Something absolutely horrible appears, usually the equivalent of a greater daemon.\par 
\par 
\tab {\ul Resummoning an Unconventional Form}: Once an unconventional form has been successfully summoned once, the effigy and ritual will still require careful modifications before the summoning form becomes reliable. At the GM\rquote s discretion, the 
next four times an unconventional form is summoned, test as described above. If any one of those tests is successful, the form may thereafter be summoned as with a conventional form. 
If none of the tests are successful, the first success was a fluke, or a generous gesture on the part of the rulers of an elemental domain, and the desired form can never become a conventional summoning form.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Conventional Effigies and Forms}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Here are descriptions of the types of effigies employed as ritual trappings when summoning conventional sprite forms from the four Elemental Domains:\par 
\tab Aeronomes: Effigies must be shaped by hand-gestures and crafted objects moved through steam, mist, smoke, or color-tinted air. Common forms include insects, birds, clouds, dust devils, and humanoids with wings of avian or insectoidal design. 
Appearances are characterized by smooth, wispy, billowy textures in white, grey, and yellow colors.\par 
\tab Hydronomes: Effigies are vessels which contain the shape of the form to be summoned. Common forms are waves, octopi, seaweed, fish, turtles, whales, dolphins, and gilled-and-finned humanoids. 
Appearances are characterized by smooth textures with rounded bulbs and globes, with rhythmic or frothy wave forms in blues and greens with white highlights.\par 
\tab Pyronomes: Effigies are made of flammable material which are ignited during the ritual; sprites form in the burning images thus produced. Common forms are wildfire flames, vine c
reepers, land-predators/carnivores (lion, viper, wolf, thunder lizard), mythic beasts (dragon, basilisk, etc.), or flaming humanoid forms. Appearances are characterized by jagged, shimmering flame features in bright oranges, reds, and blacks\par 
\tab Geonomes: Effigies are in clay or stone. Common forms are wheels with arms, stout oaks, massive but gentle or omnivorous beasts (horse, bear, boar), or deliberate, slow giant humanoid forms. Appearances are characterized by soil
-and-stone textures in earthy colors.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Abilities and Limitations of Elemental Sprites}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\plain \f16 Abilities}: All elemental sprites have the following abilities, in addition to those listed in the specific descriptions below:\par 
\tab 1. A magickal attack or a weapon forged or coated with True Silver is required to hit an elemental.\par 
\tab 2. An elemental's attack is magickal, and therefore may affect beings which are only affected by magickal attacks.\par 
\tab 3. Elementals sense magick and perceive spirit as natural abilities. These abilities work in the same way as the petty spells {\i sense magick} and {\i perceive spirit}, but elementals may exercise these abilities at will, without expending MP.\par 
\tab 4. Elementals with other magickal abilities (i.e., abilities to cast spells, rituals, or to create other magickal effects) expend MP to produce those effects, just like sorcerors. 
They do not, however, require spell reagents, focuses, or other trappings of mortal spellcasters; the magickal effects are created as inherent abilities.\par 
\tab 5. Elementals can communicate telepathically or empathically with their summoners as long as within in line of sight and within the caster\rquote s BMP score in yards. \par 
\tab Limitations: Elemental sprites must remain in a sustaining environment with an adequate volume of substance associated with their elemental domain, or they rapidly weaken, losing the ability to manifest in the Material Realm. 
An elemental in complete isolation from a sustaining environment loses 1 Strength point for each round it is isolated. When its Strength is reduced to zero, its elemental consciousness fails, and its elemental substance returns to the aethyr. 
If returned to its sustaining environment, lost Strength returns at 1 point per round.\par 
\tab Sustaining environments for each of the elemental domains are:\par 
\tab Earth: ground, soil, stone\par 
\tab Air: air \par 
\tab Fire: flammable substances \par 
\tab Water: a substantial body of water\par 
\tab When reduced to zero wounds, elemental sprites lose their substantial manifestations and return to the aethyrial world (i.e., they disappear). They do not, however, \ldblquote die\rdblquote  in a sense that mortals understand. 
They retain their consciousness and memories of events, though less intelligent sprites remember hardly more than an instinctive positive or negative feeling for familiar persons, locations, and events.\par 
\tab However, just because sprites don\rquote t die doesn\rquote t mean that they do not fear combat, pain, wounds, and the destruction of their manifested forms. Sprites feel pain just like nor
mal creatures, and experience the destruction of their manifested forms with even more distress and horror than might mortal creatures, because they {\b know} from experience what it is like to \ldblquote die\rdblquote .\par 
\tab Therefore sprites do not enter combat without some fear and caution. 
Some more aggressive sprites, particularly fire sprites, actually enjoy combat and destruction, and are more willing to fight; other elementals are less enthusiastic about fighting, and dislike and distrust summoners who frequently send them into
 battles where they are sure to be badly wounded and slain.\par 
\tab Other Abilities and Limitations: Elementals may also have other abilities at the GM's discretion. If an ability is not explicitly listed here or in the descriptions below, that does not imply that the elemental {\b cannot} have that ability. 
Use common sense. For example, water elementals are not listed as extinguishing fires, because common sense dictates that water will extinguish fire.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Service Traits and Service Tests}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sprites of different elemental domains are more or less reliable as summoned servants. When a caster gives a summoned sprite a command, a Service Test must be made against the Faithful and Vengeful Traits of the sprite. 
(See Chapter {6}: Forms and Summonings, \ldblquote Service Tests\rdblquote , page ??.)\par 
\tab Below are listed the Service Traits for each of the Elemental Domains:\par 
\tab Elemental Air: Faithful 10, Vengeful 4.\par 
\tab Elemental Fire: Faithful 7, Vengeful 10.\par 
\tab Elemental Water: Faithful 17, Vengeful 5.\par 
\tab Elemental Earth: Faithful 17, Vengeful 3.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Elemental Nodes}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Nodes are small coherences of elemental matter of approximately 1 cubic foot in volume. 
Typically roughly spherical in form when summoned, they may assume any shape at will, though other shapes are formed slowly and crudely, without detail or precision. Assuming a new shape takes more or less time, according to the sprite's domain. 
Nodes cannot wear armor or use weapons or other tools.\par 
\tab Nodes are about as stupid as pet cats, but much more obedient. Keeping more than one idea in mind at a time is very difficult, unless the ideas are very simple and very clearly defined. 
Individual nodes have relatively little personality; all nodes of a given elemental domain are similar in attitude and temperament.\par 
\tab If directed to move, attack, or perform tasks beyond the caster's control range (BMP yards), test each round vs. the caster\rquote s WP. If successful, the node remains under control. If failed, the node disappears, returning to the Aethyrial Realm.
\par 
\tab Individual nodes have relatively little personality; all nodes of a given elemental domain are similar in attitude and temperament. 
Nodes are relatively easy to control (+60 to WP for Control tests) and present little threat to a caster, even if uncontrolled.\par 
\tab Though relatively weak in combat, an attacking node is invulnerable to an opponent without magickal attacks or True-Silvered weapons, and therefore able to engage and delay an opponent, even if unable to cause the opponent serious harm. 
Nodes are incapable of speech, but understand simple commands of the summoner in Elemental Tongue. 
Their ability to move, attack, and perform simple tasks on command, combined with their enchanted nature, make them useful for a variety of improvised tasks (see examples below). The GM may require Intelligence tests (did the node understand the command?
) and Will Power tests (was the caster persuasive?) at his discretion.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Aeronome Node{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\fs28 \par 
}\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 2\tab 15\tab 0\tab 1\tab 2\tab 4\tab 70\tab 1\tab 20\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 5\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: -2 modifier to damage.\par 
\tab Abilities: Assumes new shapes instantly. Fly as hoverers.\par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Impatient, impulsive, playful, and easily distracted. Unless a task is simple and clearly defined, aeronome nodes perform very quickly and very carelessly. Similar to a parakeet in personality.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Produce light equivalent to a candle. Carry or crudely manipulate very light objects (i.e., messages, bits of cloth, etc. of Encumbrance 1 or less). Extinguish candles. Extinguish torch or lamp, 25%. 
Deflect 1 arrow or quarrel from target per round.\par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Blow the papers on the tariff-inspector\rquote s desk into the water.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Blow that wizard\rquote s hair in his eyes so he can\rquote t see us.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Drive the smoke from the fire away from my face.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Fly under that door and bring me all the little shiny bits of metal you can find.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Fly into that window and return. When you return, if you sensed magick
 within the window, rustle the ivy leaves on the wall. If you perceived spirits within, blow gently in my left ear.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Pyronome Node{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 3\tab 15\tab 0\tab 2\tab 2\tab 4\tab 30\tab 1\tab 20\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 5\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: May move only on caster, caster\rquote s hand-held items, or on flammable materials. May be extinguished like a normal candle flame.\par 
\tab Abilities: Assumes new shapes instantly.\par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Mischievous and destructive. Inattentive to commands, perfunctory in completing tasks. Most useful when commanded to burn and destroy, which it enjoys. 
Least useful, petulant, and perverse when commanded to do something boring (\ldblquote Heat my pot.\rdblquote ) or unpleasant and dangerous (\ldblquote Light my pipe! Now! I don't care if its raining!\rdblquote ). 
In personality, most closely resembles a bad-tempered, poorly-trained pet monkey.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Produce light equivalent to a candle. Causes damage as normal fire on flammable materials, and may ignite them (see \ldblquote Fire\rdblquote , {\ul WFRP}, page 80). Extinguish candles. Extinguish torch or lamp, 25%.\tab \par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Sit on the end of that arrow and burn. When the arrow slams into that roof, get off, run around, and set fire to as much as you can.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Burn all the books and scrolls on that table.\rdblquote  
\ldblquote Go along that rope to the top. Do not burn through the rope until you reach the top! When you reach the top, {\b then} you can burn through the rope.\rdblquote  \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Hydronome Node{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 5\tab 15\tab 0\tab 3\tab 3\tab 6\tab 20\tab 1\tab 20\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 5\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: When moving out of water, forms a thin sheet about 1 yard square in area with a Move of 3.\par 
\tab Abilities: Forms new shapes in 1d3 rounds.\par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Moderate and deliberate, not swift in response or comprehension, but steady in performance. Serves without resentment. Occasionally coolly violent and destructive. Most like a domestic horse or cow in personality.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Out of water, carry or crudely manipulate light objects (i.e., torch, tankard of ale, etc. of Encumbrance 5 or less). In water, carry buoyant objects of Encumbrance 50 or less. \tab \par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Fetch all glittering and shiny stones from the bottom of the brook.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Carry this rope across the river and wrap the end of it around and around and around a large rock on the bank.\rdblquote  
\ldblquote Thrash these clothes about in this barrel, then drain all the water from them and toss them out of the barrel.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Geonome Node{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 3\tab 15\tab 0\tab 4\tab 4\tab 8\tab 10\tab 1\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 5\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Abilities: +1 modifier to damage. Moves through solid materials at a Move of 1. Forms new shapes in 1d6+3 rounds.\par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Earnest and unexcitable. Slow to understand and react, but strong and persistent in completing tasks. Like a tortoise in speed, and a dog in faithfulness and goodwill.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Carry or crudely manipulate small objects (i.e., lamp, cook pot, etc. of Encumbrance 20 or less). Forms simple objects (at caster\rquote s direction, or by imitating an object) from earth or stone in 1d6 minutes.\tab \par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Form a hook with a hole at the end large enough to run this rope through.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Form yourself into an identical copy of this key.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Travel into this stone wall and reform into hole big enough to put my hand through the wall.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Travel down into the earth until you can no longer sense my presence (i.e., beyond BMP yards from the caster) and return. 
If you encounter an open area larger than yourself, return immediately.\rdblquote  (By timing the return, the caster can estimate the depth of any open chamber or passage under ground.)\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Least Elementals (Elemental Servants)}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Least Elementals are modest coherences of elemental matter no more than 1 cubic yard in volume. They usually assume the forms of small animals, but may also appear as miniature versions of natural phenomena (e.g.
, whirlwinds, flames, fountains, etc.). Servants cannot use armor, weapons, or tools.\par 
\tab Though not as plastic and adaptable as nodes, least elementals are fairly intelligent, can understand and speak Elemental Tongue, and can follow directions about as well as a well-trained, supernaturally-intelligent domestic animal. 
Note, for example, that least elementals are often as smart as dimwitted humans. 
They still tend to follow commands literally, however, and seldom show any initiative or imagination, except when presented with an undesirable task, when they may display some ingenuity in avoiding the task without directly refusing to complete it. 
The GM may require Intelligence tests (did the least elemental understand the command?) and Will Power tests (was the caster persuasive?) at his discretion.\par 
\tab If directed to move, attack, or perform tasks beyond the caster\rquote s control range (BMP yards), test each round vs. the caster\rquote s WP. If successful, the least elemental remains under control. If failed, the least elemental
 disappears, returning to the Aethyrial Realm.\par 
\tab Individual least elementals have more personality than nodes; though all least elementals of a given domain are similar in attitude and temperament, they vary in character about as much as do domestic animals. 
Least elementals are fairly tractable (+40 to WP for Control tests), but least pyronomes and geonomes in particular may present some threat to a caster if not controlled.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Least Aeronome{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Dust Devil form: A small, whirling tornado funnel. Swift, aggressive fighter. Reckless and carelessly destructive. Fly as hoverer.\tab \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 10\tab 35\tab 0\tab 1\tab 2\tab 6\tab 70\tab 1\tab 20\tab 10\tab 15\tab 10\tab 30\tab 20\tab 8\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Crow form: A black, yellow-billed bird about 12-18 inches tall. Mimics human speech. Manipulates objects well with beak and claws. Fly as swooper.\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 8\tab 25\tab 0\tab 2\tab 2\tab 6\tab 70\tab 1\tab 30\tab 10\tab 20\tab 10\tab 30\tab 20\tab 8\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: -2 modifier to damage. \par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Less playful and distractible than nodes, more likely to concentrate on a task and use some ingenuity when presented with unforeseen difficulties. Quirky and temperamental at times, often rude and disrespectful. 
Similar to a parrot or trained raven in personality.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Produce light equivalent to a lantern. Carry or crudely manipulate light objects (i.e., torch, tankard of ale, etc. of Encumbrance 5 or less). Retrieve remote objects. Distract and confuse opponents in melee. Scout for li
ving beings or magickal emanations.\tab \par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Dust Devil, gather a burden of sand and whirl it in that spellcaster\rquote s face.\rdblquote  (Hoping to blind the caster or spoil his spell.) \ldblquote 
Dust Devil, sweep the censers from that pentagram and bring them to me.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Crow, fetch me that aromatic, fresh-baked bread from the palace window.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Crow, carry this glass vial and drop it on the stones next to the tall gentleman with the fire-red hat.\rdblquote  (A message? An alchemical compound?)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Least Pyronome{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Wildfire form: A spider-like mass of flame with numerous limbs of fire extending on all sides. Indiscriminately destructive. Gets carried away and forgets commands.\tab \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 25\tab 0\tab 1\tab 2\tab 6\tab 30\tab 4\tab 20\tab 10\tab 20\tab 10\tab 30\tab 10\tab 8\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Fire Newt form: A large salamander with glowing red skin like a hot coal. More slow and deliberate in following commands than most pyronomes, but often sullen and unresponsive.\tab \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 2\tab 35\tab 0\tab 3\tab 2\tab 6\tab 30\tab 1\tab 20\tab 10\tab 30\tab 10\tab 30\tab 10\tab 8\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: May move only on caster, caster\rquote s hand-held items, or on flammable materials. May be extinguished like a normal torch. \par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Clever and energetic, enthusiastic when spreading fires. More reliable than nodes, but nastier in its pranks and subtle treacheries. In personality, most closely resembles a perversely intelligent attack dog.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Produce light equivalent to a lantern. Carry or crudely manipulate light non-flammable objects (i.e., plates, tankard of ale, weapons, etc. of Encumbrance 5 or less). 
Causes damage as normal fire on flammable materials, and may ignite them (see \ldblquote Fire\rdblquote , {\ul WFRP}, page 80). Extinguish torch or lamp.\tab \par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Wildfire, attack that man. Try to ignite his shield or cloak, or burn exposed flesh if you can't reach the shield or cloak.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Wildfire, run up that tree trunk and along that branch to the window of that house; do {\b not} set fire to the tree or branch! Just keep moving. Then, enter the window and start as many small fires as you can.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Fire Newt, heat my crucible; I\rquote ll tell you exactly how I want the temperature raised and lowered as the reagents heat and combine\'c9\rdblquote  \ldblquote Fire Newt, sit on my hand \emdash  DON'T BURN MY HAND, STUPID! \emdash  and wh
en I hit that fellow, set his beard on fire.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Least Hydronome{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Fountain form: An upwelling of water which can turn at will into a geyser of water spurting upward in a column from a body of water. Can project streams of water as an improvised melee or missile weapon. Pumps one gallon of water per round.\tab 
\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 3\tab 25\tab 25\tab 3\tab 3\tab 8\tab 30\tab 1\tab 20\tab 10\tab 30\tab 30\tab 30\tab 20\tab 8\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Octopus form: A transparent, eight-legged octopus form. Invisible in water. In unarmed (heh heh) combat, suffers no -2 to damage or -20 to WS, and grapples as with the Wrestling skill.\tab \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 5\tab 25\tab 0\tab 2\tab 3\tab 8\tab 30\tab 4\tab 30\tab 10\tab 30\tab 30\tab 30\tab 20\tab 8\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: Out of water, Move is reduced to 3. \par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Steady and reliable. Tenacious in combat. As patient and resourceful as a sheepdog, and almost as faithful, with occasional fits of uncooperative independence.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Out of water, carry or crudely manipulate small objects (i.e., shield, small animal, large book, etc. of Encumbrance 40 or less). In water, carry buoyant objects of Encumbrance 400 or less.\par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Fountain, douse that fire!\rdblquote  \ldblquote Fountain, pump the contents of that pool out through that window.\rdblquote  (If it\rquote s a small window, a lot will end up on the floor.) \ldblquote 
Octopus, drag that man from the wharf and hold him underwater until I signal you to stop.\rdblquote  (Remember: elementals are in telepathic communication with their summoners.) \ldblquote Octopus, swim underwater to that boat and push the tiller\'c9 ah,
 that long piece of wood leading into the water there, and wide and flat in the water\'c9 as hard as you can away from this side of the river.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Least Geonome{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Badger form: Fairly-large burrowing mammal with sharp claws and a tenacious disposition. Quiet, sensible. Excavates 1 cubic yard of earth or stone per minute.\tab \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 2\tab 25\tab 0\tab 5\tab 4\tab 10\tab 20\tab 1\tab 30\tab 10\tab 30\tab 40\tab 30\tab 20\tab 8\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Wolverine form: Fairly large omnivorous four-legged mammal, very aggressive, with a terrible temper. Subject to Frenzy. Not a willing servant, proud, impatient, and uncooperative.\tab \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 25\tab 0\tab 3\tab 3\tab 8\tab 30\tab 2\tab 10\tab 10\tab 20\tab 10\tab 30\tab 10\tab 8\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Abilities: +1 modifier to damage. Moves through solid materials at a Move of 1.\par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Generally cooperative and reliable (the Wolverine form being a notable exception). Sometimes headstrong, insistent on doing things their own way, but otherwise earnest servants. Like a large, even-tempered dog in temperament
, but aggressive and dangerous in combat.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Carry or crudely manipulate small objects (Encumbrance 200 or less). Scout, attack, and retrieve through solid obstacles. Undermine building foundation, search for secret passages or underground structures.\tab \par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Badger, move through the rock at this point in the door. When you emerge on the other side, take the piece of wood you find there, push it onto the floor, and return.\rdblquote  (Unbar the door.) \ldblquote 
Badger, dig me a tunnel through the earth. Make sure the tunnel won\rquote t cave in, because I'm going to crawl through it.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Wolverine, stay here outside this door. 
If any living thing, or any non-living thing that moves like a living thing, enters this hall, attack it, and make as much noise as you can, so I can hear and escape.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Wolverine, wait here in this pile of trash. 
If anything follows me down this alley, kill it.\rdblquote  (An expendable rear guard to delay pursuit.)\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Lesser Elementals}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Lesser elementals are man-sized and larger-than-man-sized coherences of elemental matter no more than 2 cubic yards in volume. 
Lesser elementals can use armor, weapons, and tools, provided they have man-like manipulative appendages or the equivalent (see below).\par 
\tab With their multiple attacks, greater strength and toughness, and respectable combat proficiency, lesser elementals are dangerous opponents. 
Some lesser elementals are comparable to apprentice sorcerors and initiates in intelligence, and are competent spellcasters; others are not so mentally endowed. 
Lesser elementals can understand and speak Elemental Tongue and often one or two human languages. They may display ingenuity and imagination in interpreting the summoner\rquote 
s requests, both in accomplishing an appealing request, and in perverting the intent of an unappealing request. \par 
\tab If directed to move, attack, or perform tasks beyond the caster\rquote s control range (BMP yards), test each round vs. the caster\rquote s WP. If successful, the lesser elemental remains under control. If failed, the lesser elemental
 disappears, returning to the Aethyrial Realm.\par 
\tab Lesser elementals have distinct individual personalities, just like humanoids; though all lesser elementals of a given domain are similar in attitude and temperament, they vary greatly in temperament and character. Lesser elementals present
 a considerable risk of resisting control when summoned (+30 to WP for Control tests), and present a serious threat to a caster if not controlled.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Lesser Aeronome{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Wind Eagle form: Giant eagles with high intelligence and man-like manipulative ability with beak and claws. Will use hand weapons and tools, but no armor. Drop stones like improvised missiles. Fly as swooper. 
Suitable as mounts for unencumbered, unarmored humanoids. Cannot fight as a mount. Cast {\i blinding light}, {\i magick light}, {\i muffle sound}, and {\i wildwind} spells.\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 10\tab 40\tab 30\tab 3\tab 2\tab 17\tab 70\tab 1\tab 50\tab 10\tab 50\tab 10\tab 50\tab 30\tab 15\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Mist Mare form: Winged horses like pegasi with modest intelligence but no manipulative appendages. Fly as swooper. Suitable as mounts for encumbered and armored humanoids. Used as a mount, can make two stomp/kick attacks per round. Cast {\i wildwind}
 and {\i mystic mist} spells.\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 8\tab 50\tab 0\tab 4\tab 3\tab 24\tab 70\tab 2\tab 10\tab 10\tab 30\tab 10\tab 50\tab 30\tab 15\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: None. \par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Far less playful and distractible than nodes and least aeronome, but more proud, independent, and temperamental. If treated with respect and consideration, usually cooperative servants; 
if enlisted in a cause (typically the protection of the natural world and its creatures, especially against Chaos, daemons, and the undead), fervent and ingenious allies. Similar to a skilled humanoid hireling or companion in personality:
 that is, personalities vary greatly.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Produce light equivalent to a powerful lantern (double radius of light). Carry or manipulate small objects (i.e., shield, small animal, large book, etc. of Encumbrance 40 or less). Extinguish torch or lamp. 
Serve as mounts and fighting allies.\par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Honored Father of the Wind, bear me across this town at twice tree height. If your keen eyes note a Halfling with a red cap and a great brass horn, signal me; I wish to find and greet this fellow.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Honored Father of the Wind, scout the camp of my enemy and note the disposition of his forces, his guards, his provisions, his strongpoints. Fly at ten tree heights to avoid his sentries arrows, and flee if you find yourself opposed.\rdblquote  
\ldblquote Noble Steed, bear my companion into battle against yon giant. Blind the giant with your mists, and maneuver this warrior so he may belabor the great brute from the rear.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Lesser Pyronome{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Hell Hound form: A deerhound-sized war dog wreathed in glowing incandescent gases with modest intelligence but no manipulative appendages. Suitable as mounts for unencumbered and unarmored humanoids protected by the resist fire spell. 
Used as a mount, can make two claw attacks per round. All attacks are made as with the {\i hand of fire} spell. \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 50\tab 0\tab 4\tab 4\tab 20\tab 30\tab 2\tab 20\tab 10\tab 20\tab 10\tab 50\tab 10\tab 10\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Winged Fire Serpent form: Giant winged snakes resembling wyverns without legs, with high intelligence and man-like manipulative ability with beak and claws. Will use hand weapons and tools, but no armor. Drop stones like improvised missiles. 
Fly as swooper. Suitable as mounts for unencumbered, unarmored humanoids protected by the {\i resist fire} spell. Cannot fight as a mount. Cast {\i fireball} (as a first level War Wizard), {\i hand of fire}, {\i fireflare}, and {\i resist fire} spells.
\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 3\tab 40\tab 0\tab 4\tab 3\tab 16\tab 30\tab 1\tab 30\tab 10\tab 40\tab 10\tab 50\tab 10\tab 10\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: Is surrounded by an envelope of flammable gas, and may move without restriction in non-flammable environments for 1d6+6 minutes before suffering strength loss form isolation from sustaining environment. 
May not be extinguished except by magickal means. \par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Sinister and cruel. Intelligent, shrewd, enjoys exercising powers, destroying things, and terrorizing mortals. Contemptuous of tender-hearted and noble sentiments, sly and conspiratorial with summoners of similar temperament
. Similar to a skilled humanoid hireling or companion with cruel, violent tendencies.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Produce light equivalent to a lantern. Carry or manipulate small non-flammable objects (i.e., metal shield, weapon, etc. of Encumbrance 40 or less). Causes damage as normal fire on flammable materials, and may ignite them (see 
\ldblquote Fire\rdblquote , {\ul WFRP}, page 80). Extinguish torch or lamp. Serve as mounts or fighting allies.\par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Hell Hound, attack any living beings which enter this hallway except those which wear magickal amulets with my mark.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Hell Hound, search the castle for intruders. 
Attack and torture any you find, but leave them alive. If the intruders bear magickal devices, do not attack! Return and summon me immediately.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Winged Fire Serpe
nt, circle behind the attacking orcs and cast 4 fireballs at them, then cast hand of fire on yourself and attack the leader in the helmet with the magickal sword.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Winged Fire Serpent, cast hand of fire on each of my companions, then on yourself, and join us in attacking these zombies.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Lesser Hydronome{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Dolphin form: Large sea mammals with high intelligence but no manipulative appendages. Cannot use hand weapons, tools, or armor. Superb swimmers and aquatic acrobats. Cannot leave water. Suitable as mounts for unencumbered, unarmored humanoids. 
Cannot fight as a mount. Cast {\i breathe under water}, {\i waterwalk}, {\i distract elemental}, {\i extinguish fire}, {\i resist cold}, {\i smother}, and {\i waterward} spells.\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 8\tab 30\tab 0\tab 4\tab 4\tab 20\tab 40\tab 1\tab 10\tab 10\tab 50\tab 50\tab 50\tab 50\tab 10\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Hydra form: Similar to Chaos hydras, but smaller (maximum of 8 feet long), exclusively with water-serpent bodies and multiple serpent necks and heads. Exceptionally violent and aggressive for hydronomes. Modest int
elligence, no manipulative appendages. Cannot use hand weapons, tools, or armor. Out of water, move is reduced to 2. Not suitable as mounts.\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 30\tab 0\tab 2\tab 3\tab 20\tab 40\tab 7\tab 10\tab 10\tab 20\tab 50\tab 50\tab 30\tab 10\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: May move out of contact with water for 1d6+6 rounds before losing Strength from isolation from a sustaining environment.\par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Steady and reliable, tenacious in combat, resourceful in problem solving. Avoid violence and confrontation (hydras are an exception). Usually friendly and cooperative, forgiving and patient, though dangerous when angered. 
Sympathetic and protective of natural world and defenseless creatures. Like friendly, loyal hirelings or companions in personality: that is, personalities vary widely.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Out of water, carry or manipulate medium-sized objects (i.e., small human, full chest, table, etc. of Encumbrance 200 or less). In water, propel buoyant objects of Encumbrance 2000 or less. Serve as mounts or fighting allies.
\par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Brother Fin, cast a breathe water spell upon me, please, then bear me beneath the sea in pursuit of that vessel. Take care not to be seen by the passengers, and deliver me to a point where I can board unobserved.
\rdblquote  \ldblquote Brother Fin, swim down to the docks and find the sailing ship Pride of Marienbad. Cast loose her moorings and disable her rudder: jam it with bits of debris, or use your imagination.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Seventh-Head of the Serpent, pick me a passable path through this marsh. Be alert for any living creatures which might harm me.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Seventh Head of the Serpent, cross the river, and attack any creatures which are hiding in the bushes along the bank. Return to the water the moment you feel yourself weakening, then return to the attack when you are restored.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Lesser Geonome\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Great Bear form: A very large cinnamon-colored bear, intelligent, with some manipulative skill with its paws. Can use weapons, tools, and armor. 
Use as mounts for encumbered and armored humanoids is possible but discouraged, since the creature is slow and cannot fight with a rider, but mostly because they do not like riders, but can carry prodigious loads at need. Cast {\i burrow} spell. 
Pleasant and peaceful disposition, fierce when angered.\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 50\tab 0\tab 5\tab 4\tab 30\tab 30\tab 2\tab 10\tab 10\tab 30\tab 60\tab 50\tab 30\tab 10\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Elder Troll form: The ancestral troll race, now extinct, before it became tainted and corrupted by Chaos. Flesh is similar in composition and texture to stone. Can digest earth and stone. Slow-witted and
 primitive, but peaceable, deliberate, and noble. Unsuitable as a mount, but can carry prodigious loads. Use only simple weapons and tools, no armor. Throw stones as improvised weapons with +2 damage for large size of stones. Cast {\i assault of stone}, {
\i burrow}, and {\i shatter elemental bonds}.\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 6\tab 50\tab 30\tab 5\tab 6\tab 40\tab 20\tab 3\tab 10\tab 10\tab 50\tab 60\tab 50\tab 30\tab 10\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Abilities: +1 modifier to damage. Moves through solid materials at a Move of 1. \par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Placid, cooperative, friendly, but wary of insult or abuse. Confident and easy-going, restrained or playful in combat unless injured or threatened, then ferocious. 
Never subtle, clever, or witty; neither employ nor appreciate irony or dishonesty. Like friendly warrior companions or hirelings with excessive confidence in their strength and durability.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Carry or crudely manipulate medium-sized objects (i.e., small boat, pair of characters with their gear, etc. of Encumbrance 1000 or less). Serve as bearers of burdens or as fighting allies.\par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Father Bear, demolish that cell door, taking care not to damage the occupant.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Father Bear, help us gather large stones and small tree trunks to build a defensive barrier.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Father Troll, pelt those rude goblins with stones. No, you may throw them yourself, you don\rquote t need to use magick.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
Father Troll, merge with the rock of this wall, and wait until the horsemen behind us have passed you, then emerge from the wall and attack them from the rear.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Greater Elementals}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Greater elementals are humanoid, man-sized or giant-sized coherences of elemental matter no more than 6 cubic yards in volume. 
Greater elementals may assume other shapes at will, but prefer to manifest in the forms described below. Greater elementals can use armor, weapons, and tools.\par 
\tab At once heroic fighters and master spellcasters, greater elementals are among the most terrible beings of Warhammer World. Only the great dragons, legendary Elven warriors and sorcerors, divine heroes, and daemons may challenge them as equals. 
Any elementalist who has lived long enough to learn to summon a greater elemental is wise enough to present himself as a humble petitioner, not a commanding summoner. 
Greater elementals may agree to serve lesser mortals, but only when it suits their own purposes.\par 
\tab 
Greater elementals have the ability to identify and report the presence of substances and phenomena appropriate to their domain, for example, a greater hydronome can indicate the distance and direction to the nearest large body of water or significant s
upply of ale. They can also identify the composition of a substance in their own domain with great accuracy, a service of special interest to alchemists.\par 
\tab If directed to move, attack, or perform tasks beyond the caster\rquote s control range (BMP yards), test each round vs. the caster\rquote s WP. If successful, the greater elemental remains under control. 
If failed, the greater elemental disappears, returning to the Aethyrial Realm.\par 
\tab Greater elementals have distinct and, by humanoid standards, often bizarre and eccentric personalities, just like the often bizarre and eccentric personalities of the wizards who summon them. 
Though all greater elementals of a given domain are somewhat similar in attitude and temperament, they vary greatly in temperament and character. Greater elementals often resist control when summoned (+10 to WP for Control tests), and present a mortal
 threat to a caster if not controlled.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Greater Aeronome\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sylph form: A winged humanoid, typically assuming the features of a beautiful maiden of the summoner\rquote s race. May appear armed, armored, and equipped as it chooses, typically as a lightly 
armored warrior with shield and long bow. Fly as swooper. Cast {\i banish lesser elemental}, {\i blinding light}, {\i darken reflection}, {\i distract elemental}, {\i dust storm}, {\i favorable winds}, {\i flight minor}, {\i lightning}, {\i magick light}
, {\i muffle sound}, {\i mystic mist}, {\i reproduce sound}, {\i wildwind}, and {\i winddeflection} spells. Cast {\i summon elemental node}, {\i summon least elemental}, and {\i lesser elemental} rituals as spells (i.e.
, in one round, without preparation and trappings), but may summon only air sprites.\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 5\tab 65\tab 50\tab 4\tab 3\tab 30\tab 70\tab 3\tab 70\tab 50\tab 60\tab 30\tab 70\tab 40\tab 20\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: none. \par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Aristocratic, accustomed to giving orders, not to taking them. Patronizing and condescending to mortals, but cooperative if treated with deference and respect. Spiteful and malicious if offended\'c9 and are easily offended. 
Personalities vary greatly, as with mortals.\tab \par 
\tab Typical Applications: Produce light equivalent to sunlight. Carry or manipulate medium-sized objects (i.e., small human, full chest, table, etc. of Encumbrance 200 or less). Extinguish any normal fire. Deflect all missiles from target each round. 
Serve as fighting allies.\par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Beg pardon, Excellency, but we are desperately set upon by thieves and scoundrels. Please aid us in defending ourselves and teaching the blackguards a lesson in manners.\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
A thousand pardons for disturbing you, my Lord, but we are about to enter the sacred precincts of an ancient ruin, and we thought we might greatly benefit from your wise counsel and manifold talents as we attempt to fathom its mysteries.\rdblquote  \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Greater Pyronome{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Salamander form: A red-skinned humanoid, wreathed in incandescent gases, typically assuming either the features of a handsome middle-aged male of the summoner's race, or the features of a humanoid salamander. May appear armed, armored
, and equipped as it chooses, typically as a warrior armored in black plate with shield and flaming sword. All attacks are as with the {\i hand of fire} spell. Cast {\i banish lesser elemental}, {\i distract elemental}, {\i extinguish fire}, {\i fireball}
 (as 2nd level caster), {\i fireflare}, {\i hand of fire}, and {\i resist fire} spells. Cast {\i summon elemental node}, {\i summon least elemental}, and {\i lesser elemental} rituals as spells (i.e., in one 
round, without preparation and trappings), but may summon only fire sprites.\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 65\tab 30\tab 5\tab 3\tab 30\tab 30\tab 3\tab 50\tab 50\tab 70\tab 40\tab 70\tab 40\tab 20\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: Is surrounded by an envelope of flammable gas, and may move without restriction in non-flammable environments for 1d6+6 minutes before suffering strength loss form isolation from sustaining environment. 
May not be extinguished except by magickal means.\par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Subtle, sophisticated, aristocratic, manipulative. Conceals personal feeling under a mask of good will and cooperation. Extremely treacherous and vindictive. 
Only happy when inflicting pain and destruction, and only trustworthy when happy. Effusive flattery, praise, and persuasion are necessary when requesting service. 
Personalities vary greatly, as with mortals, but generally resentful of summoners and contemptuous of weak mortals and fragile, subtle arts.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Produce light equivalent to a great lantern (double radius of effect). Carry or manipulate medium-sized objects (i.e., small human, full chest, table, etc. of Encumbrance 200 or less). 
Causes damage as normal fire on flammable materials, and may ignite them (see \ldblquote Fire\rdblquote , {\ul WFRP}, page 80). Extinguish any normal fire. Serve as fighting allies.\par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Lord Fire, I beg your indulgence, but these fools seem to doubt the might of your domain. Perhaps a sample of your personal attentions will convince them that it is unwise to oppose the servants of your realm.\rdblquote  
\ldblquote Lord Fire, I hardly know where to begin. Look about at these fields of tinderbox weeds, these huts with thatched roofs, the flimsy palisade walls of our enemies. 
I beg you, do as you see fit, and I shall follow in your path, quick to serve you in your righteous wrath.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Greater Hydronome{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Undine form: A blue- or white-skinned humanoid, either with human limbs, or with a scaled, finned lower torso and tail, typically assuming the features of an exquisitely beautiful female of the summoner\rquote s race. May appear armed, armor, and 
equipped as it chooses, typically clad in a revealing garment and armed with a sword and shield. Cast {\i banish lesser elemental}, {\i breathe underwater}, {\i distract elemental}, {\i extinguish fire}, {\i resist cold}, {\i smother}, {\i waterwalk} and 
{\i waterward} spells. Cast {\i summon elemental node}, {\i summon least elemental}, and {\i lesser elemental rituals} as spells (i.e., in one round, without preparation and trappings), but may summon only water sprites.\tab \par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 8\tab 65\tab 20\tab 5\tab 3\tab 30\tab 30\tab 3\tab 50\tab 50\tab 70\tab 70\tab 70\tab 40\tab 20\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Restrictions: May move out of contact with water for 1d6+6 rounds before losing Strength from isolation from a sustaining environment. Out of water, move is reduced to 3.\par 
\tab Abilities: +1 modifier to damage.\par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Aristocratic, formal, but pleasant and cooperative, forgiving and patient, slow to take offense, though dangerous when angered. Sympathetic and protective of natural world and defenseless creatures. 
Personalities vary greatly, as with mortals.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Out of water, carry or crudely manipulate medium-sized objects (i.e., small boat, pair of characters with their gear, etc. of Encumbrance 1000 or less). In water, propel buoyant objects of Encumbrance 10, 000 or less. 
Serve as fighting allies.\par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote Lady of the Waters, our ship is in danger of foundering on the rocks in this storm. Could you please guide her through the rocks to the beach beyond, or help us in some other way you think wiser?\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
A great kraken has taken refuge in a sea cave below. We must enter that cave. Can you assist us in slaying the kraken, or driving it from the cave, or finding us a way past the kraken, whichever you think is best?\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Greater Geonome{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Gnome form: A giant-sized humanoid with flesh of stone-like texture, color, and durability, typically assuming the features of an aged, ugly male of the summoner's race. May appear armed, armored
, and equipped as it chooses, typically clad in earth-colored plate armor and armed with a hammer and shield. Cast {\i assault of stone}, {\i banish lesser elemental}, {\i burrow}, {\i distract elemental}, and {\i shatter elemental bonds} spells. Cast {
\i summon elemental node}, {\i summon least elemental}, and {\i lesser elemental} rituals as spells (i.e., in one round, without preparation and trappings), but may summon only earth sprites.\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 3\tab 65\tab 50\tab 7\tab 5\tab 40\tab 20\tab 2\tab 50\tab 50\tab 50\tab 80\tab 70\tab 40\tab 20\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Abilities: +2 modifier to damage. Moves through solid materials at a Move of 1. \par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Trusting, confident and easy-going, slow to anger. Friendly and cooperative, practical and informal. Personalities vary greatly, as with mortals.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Carry or crudely manipulate very large objects (i.e., small party with their gear, cart and horses, small bridge or other structure, etc. of Encumbrance 5000 or less). Forms objects with great precision (at caster\rquote 
s direction, or by imitating an object) from earth or stone in 1d6 minutes. Serve as fighting allies.\par 
\tab Sample Commands: \ldblquote My friend Gnome, I need assistance in selecting and transporting some stones for the foundation of my castle. Could you summon some of your fellow geonomes and aid me with this task?\rdblquote  \ldblquote 
My friend Gnome, we seem to be trapped in this cavern by a horde of Skaven. Could you assist us in fighting our way out, or can you suggest a method by which we could bypass them and escape?\rdblquote  \ldblquote My friend G
nome, the entrance of this tomb appears to be buried by a rockfall. Could you assist us in making our way through the rockfall, and keep it from collapsing and burying us while we take a look inside?\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Wisentlich (Elemental Rulers)}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Wisentlich are humanoid, man-sized, or giant-sized coherences of elemental matter. 
They may alter their size and volume at will by summoning elemental matter from the Material Realm; their forms may be as small as mice, or as large as giants. 
Wisentlich may assume other shapes at will, but prefer to manifest in the forms described below. Wisentlich can use armor, weapons, and tools.\par 
\tab Wisentlich are the equivalent of minor godlings or greater daemons. They may not be commanded to serve. One who summons a wisentlich may petition the wisentlich for a favor. Wisentlich have vast though ultimately limited magick
al powers, and can able to grant many favors a mortal could scarcely imagine. 
In fact, however, wisentlich prefer to decline to grant most favors, usually on the grounds that mortals ought not be accorded the powers given by right to the rulers of the elemental domains, both because mortals have not earned these powers, and because 
they are not wise enough to use these powers properly.\par 
\tab Though individual wisentlich of a given domain are similar in attitude and temperament, they vary greatly in temperament and character. Greater elementals usually resist control when summoned (-
30 to WP for Control tests), and present a mortal threat to the caster, his companions, and neighboring population centers if not controlled.\par 
\par 
{\fs28 Wisentlichs}{\fs28  of Air, Fire, Water, or Earth\par 
}\tab Wisentlich forms: Forms are similar to those of greater elementals, though typically marked by royal dress and trappings rather than by trappings of war. Wisentlich may cast any elemental spells as if they were 4th Level Elementalists. 
Wisentlich may cast {\i summon elemental node}, {\i summon least elemental}, {\i summon lesser elemental}, {\i summon greater elemental}, and {\i summon wisentlich} rituals as spells (i.e.
, in one round, without preparation and trappings), and may summon sprites of any elemental domain. (Note that since wisentlich can cast the {\i summon wisentlich}
 ritual in reverse in a single round, thereby canceling their summons, they are not required to remain in the Material Realm when summoned unless they choose to remain.)\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 10\tab 65\tab 50\tab 7\tab 5\tab 40\tab 20\tab 2\tab 50\tab 50\tab 50\tab 80\tab 70\tab 40\tab 20\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Abilities: +6 modifier to damage. Move through any substance without penalty or restriction. \par 
\tab Attitude and Temperament: Just like you\rquote d expect a god to be. Often puzzled and bewildered by a summons, as if they can\rquote t believe something like a mortal would be stupid and rude enough to bother them. 
If annoyed, they swat mortals like flies. If interested, amused, or skillfully persuaded, they are briefly patient, and occasionally generous.\par 
\tab Typical Applications: Sane spellcasters only summon wisentlich for two reasons:\par 
\tab 1. to obtain permission to use the bind elemental servant and command least elementals spells, or\par 
\tab 2. to request aid against opponents with similar or greater powers than wisentlichs (i.e., greater daemons and godlings).\par 
\tab Insane spellcasters may summon wisentlich for a variety of reasons, usually to obtain knowledge, power, or service beyond that which is obtainable by safer, more reliable methods. 
Those who survive the experience may learn caution by it, though most continue the attempt until it kills them.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note:{ }PCs who summon wisentlich better be sane spellcasters; otherwise, the best they should hope for is to survive being refused their favor.{ }At worst, they 
should expect to be slain by the equivalent of a minor god{:} a flashy way to go, admittedly, if that's what they have in mind.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sample Petitions: \ldblquote Oh most puissant ruler of the air and sky, gracious and generous benefactor, source of the very air that all things breathe, we who live and die by your will must desperately plead for your aid. 
The foul breath of Chaos lies upon the land. The creatures of the earth are threatened everywhere by daemons, beastmen, and mutants. Please grant me, your faithful servant, the power to call upon the citizens of your realm, through the agency of the 
command least elementals spell, to aid me in battle against these evil forces.\rdblquote  \ldblquote Dear Lord of the Sea, I\rquote m here all alone on this boat and that filthy rat Hadrast of the Rivers of Blood has sent a greater daemon after me. 
If you don\rquote t help me out, there\rquote s going to be one less good and faithful Elementalist {Rank 4th }in the world, and one very happy daemonologist who\rquote s likely to get into all sorts of mischief if I\rquote m not around t
o keep him honest. Oh, please, please, please, I\rquote ve only bothered you once before, just about that command least elementals spell, and you were ever so nice about that, oh, please, please, please, won\rquote t you help me out, just this once, I 
promise I\rquote ll never bother you again\'c9\rdblquote \par 
}