{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\s244\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 
\f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext244 header;}{\s255\qj\sb240 \b\f21\ul \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext2 Chapter Heading;}{\s3\qj \b\f16 \sbasedon0\snext3 Section Heading;}{\s4\qj \f16 
\sbasedon0\snext4 Subsection;}{\s5\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext5 GM Note;}}{\info}\widowctrl\ftnbj\makebackup\fracwidth {\*\nextfile perv.gov:Terms and Rules}\sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain 
\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 Realms of Sorcery\tab Introduction\tab Page {\chpgn }\par 
}\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 Chapter 1\: The Roots of Warhammer Sorcery}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 The Source of Magick\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj \tab In the beginning there was Chaos, and within it was Power, Great Power without Form. Yet within Chaos there was Motion, and within Motion was Form,
 and within this Motion were the Words, which shaped the Motion, and gave it Form. And the Great Speakers were awakened, and the Great Words were spoken, and the Great Magick was wrought, the birth of the World.\par 
\pard \qj \tab And in the Image of the Great Speakers were we awakened, and in the Image of the Great Words have we spoken, and in the image of the Great Magick have we wrought our world. So be it.\par 
{\tab }\emdash  The {\ul Verrah Rub}{\ul icon}, Book One, \ldblquote The History of the World\rdblquote \par 
\tab \par 
\tab When the Powers speak, the Universe listens, because the Universe is fundamentally nothing more than Form imposed upon Chaos, and the image of that Form is determined through the action, consciousness, and will, 
represented in the unimaginably complex and subtle Great Language of the Powers known to mortals as gods and daemons.\par 
\tab The vast and magickal powers of the Powers are a reflection of their superior command of this divine language, referred to by cult scholars as the {\b lingua praestantia}. Lesser magickal 
powers, like daemons and spirits, have more modest facility and capacity for this language, and therefore have correspondingly more modest magickal abilities. Even the greatest of the Old Slann and their gifted pupils, the High Elven wizards of the First A
ge, had little more than a baby\rquote s babbling comprehension of this language\'c9 but even with that primitive comprehension they were the mightiest sorcerors of 
all time. And the best-known practitioners of the Arcane Arts in the great Academies of Magick in the modern Old World are little better than apes mimicking the speech of men in their command of the {\b lingua praestantia},
 and yet, their powers are the source of awe and wonder among the peoples of the Warhammer World.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Words and Magic}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab \ldblquote How might humble words work magick?\rdblquote  you may ask. Indeed, the words of mortal languages have little enough power to them, but the Words of the Gods are another thing altogether.\par 
\pard \qj \tab When the Earth Mother says, \ldblquote Oceans, dance!\rdblquote  the oceans dance. When a lesser Young God like Manann says, \ldblquote Oceans, dance!\rdblquote  the effect is more modest,
 but still awesome in human terms. And when a sorceror summons a water elemental and commands it to capsize a rowboat, the scale is immensely different, but the principle is the same.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 The {Sorceror and Lingua Praestantia}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Even the simplest word in {\b lingua praestantia}
 is unimaginably complex. In the simplest petty sorcery, shadings of rhythm, accent, pitch, duration, volume, timbre, etc. all control a host of critical elements, any of which might spoil the effect if phrased imprecisely
. Only the rare individual with the combined gifts of the voice and ear of a temple choir soloist and the intelligence, memory, and wit of the finest scholar can learn to master the subtle chords of sorcery.\par 
\tab Further, a sorceror must have also been blessed with a powerful aethyrial organ (known variously as the \ldblquote Mind\rdblquote  or \ldblquote Psyche\rdblquote ), so that he can shape its resonances to the Words and thereby produce the magickal
 effect. For most sorcerors, this aethyrial component of the Great Language is hardest to master, but excellence in this exercise is the crucial difference between the lowly hedgewizard and the more exalted practitioners of the Arcane Arts.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Runes}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Runes, the fundamental agencies of sorcery, are the physical and aethyrial images of {\b lingua praestantia}
 just as writing is the physical image of the spoken word of human languages. Runecraft is an unimaginably complex and demanding art. Accurate transcription of the Great Language into runes requires that the tiniest dist
inctions of pronunciation be precisely recorded in the rune. Further, a rune must be inscribed not only in the physical domain, but also in the aethyrial domain; that is, they must be magickally inscribed into the aethyrial field associated with the rune.
\par 
\tab Properly inscribed
 runes are essential to all sorcerous undertakings, and all sorcerors must read and understand at least those runes essential to the particular spells and rituals they learn. More ambitious students of runecraft may be qualified for res
earch and development of revised or new applications of the arcane practices.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Sorcerous Vs. Divine Magicks\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The first magicks on Warhammer were Divine Magicks, magickal powers given by a god to his followers. The followers so blessed needed to know nothing about the arcane arts to produce magick
al effects. The followers simply prayed to their gods, and their gods provided the magickal effects. All that was required of the followers was duty, service, and honor to the god, the temple, and the tenets of the faith.\par 
\tab Sorcerors, on the other hand, must be knowledgeable and skilled in the arcane arts to produce magickal effects. Unlike cult priests and other beneficiaries of cult magickal
 gifts, sorcerors must study diligently to master their trade, and as they are perfecting their trade, they run the risk of potentially 
disastrous failures as the result of the slightest error. As a consequence, sorcerors as a class generally feel superior to cult priests, regarding them more as unskilled servants than sorcerors, and
 judging them more studied in theological rigamarole than in the true arcane arts.\par 
\tab The cults have persecuted secular magickal practices since the dawn of human culture, labeling it as \ldblquote witchcraft\rdblquote  and \ldblquote daemon worship\rdblquote , forbidding their followers to traffic in the \ldblquote dark arts of Chaos
 spawn\rdblquote , and encouraging cult and state crusades to exterminate practitioners of secular magick. The cults have always publicly associated all sorcery with Chaos magicks and the often-abused disciplines of Necromancy and {Daemon}ology.\par 
\tab (Note: {\ul Realms of Sorcery} primarily presents the realms of the sorcerous arts, with only passing references to divine magicks. For further details on divine magicks in the World of Warhammer, see the companion volume, {\ul Divine Magick}.)\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Sorcery in the Modern Old Worl{d}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Cult Persecution\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab For centuries the cults jealously guarded their monopoly on magickal practice. Sorcery in the Old World up until the latter half of the 25th Century was confined primarily to hedgew
izards who practiced their arts in secret or in communities where the cult influences were weak or nonexistent. Parents taught their children that the practice of secular magicks was evil and {daemon}-inspired, and that cult followers associated
 with petty witches and wizards at the risk of Eternal Damnation.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Earlier Periods of Cult Tolerance\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Three periods in the past have seen comparatively little cult interference with the practice of sorcery, and during these periods were the greatest flowerings of the Arcane Arts.\par 
\tab The first period came in the First and Second Centuries, with the expansion of urbanization and trade during the early Empire. 
Most of the venerable enchantments laid upon the walls and defenses of the great cities of the Old World date from this period, which came to a close with the emergence of the Sigmar Cult as a power in Imperial politics.\par 
\tab The second period of tolerance came during the Black Plagues of the Tenth Century. For a brief time, priests and wizards made common cause against the disastrous humane and economic effects of the Plagues, but within a few decades
, sorcery was once again proscribed by most Old World nations.\par 
\tab The third period of toleration began in the late 19th and early 20th Centuries in the City States of Tilea, and ended abruptly in the mid-20th Century with the violent suppression of the Chaos Cults that had proliferated
 throughout Old World culture in preceding centuries. Many sorcerors were slain by mobs, and many great magickal treasures were lost forever in the Dark Ages that followed.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Persistent Sorcerous Traditions\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A few secret societies of sorcerors managed to survive and prosper on a modest scale, even in regions of pervasive cult influence. From time to time these secret societies
 emerged for brief periods of public toleration, typically in times of siege, invasion, and war, when desperate need for sorcerous magicks forced the cults to compromise their fanatic moral opposition to sorcerous practices. For example, few of the great c
ities of the Old World lack walls, gates, or other defenses reinforced in earlier centuries by sorcery. The libraries and practical experience accumulated by these clandestine societies down through the centuries form the foundations of much of the body of
 knowledge studied by modern academic sorcery.\par 
\tab Further, in remote wilderness areas like the World\rquote s Edge frontier, the Border Princedoms, and in isolated Elven
 and Dwarven settlements, various sorcerous disciplines were practiced openly, though on a modest scale, and because of their isolation, were often limited to unimaginative, conservative notions of sorcery handed down scarcely changed from the latter centu
ries of the Great Goblin Wars. Narrow and parochial as these minor enclaves have been, some have preserved magickal lore of great interest to modern academics.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 The Waning of Cult Influence in Warfare and Politics\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab In the late 25th Century, cultural views of sorcery experienced a revolution. Through altering modern attitudes toward the role of the cults in society, warfare, and politics, throughout the Old World came a shift in private
 and public opinions about the practice of sorcery.\par 
\tab Historically the cults enjoyed great political power for three main reasons:\par 
\tab 1. Their magickal support in warfare,\par 
\tab 2. Their magickal services to the ruling or aspiring clans\par 
\tab 3. Their power to heal the citizenry of disease and the soldiery of battlefield wounds.\par 
\tab Throughout the early history of Old World warfare, magick has played little more than a secondary role on the battlefield. With the exception of 
several notable siege resistances based on magickal defenses, no major military conflict before 2429 had been decisively influenced by magick.\par 
\tab However, 
magick has always had its role on the battlefield, primarily in the support and defense of battle leaders. Captains and generals have traditionally been well-protected by the prayers of cult priests, and often great leaders and heroes have been granted 
magickal weapons, standards, and other cult boons. Less commonly, elite troops might receive magickal protections and spiritual support in the form of battlefield spells and sacred battle standards.\par 
\tab F
urther, cult magicks have been historically effective in defense of fortified positions, since cult priests can summon and channel the magickal potential of their worshippers into strengthening walls and defenses against magick and inspiring defenders on s
acred ground. Thus, divine magickal aid has always been a foremost concern of sovereigns and warleaders. The power to grant or withhold this divine aid has thus been an important form of leverage on the political leaders of the Old World nations.\par 
\tab Off the battlefield, the support and protection of cult magicks have preserved royal dynasties from the diseases and misfortunes that prey on common men, and have often subtly aided ruling regimes in amassing and consolidating their diplomatic power
. Conversely, a cult\rquote s mundane and arcane support of a usurper or contender can be a crucial factor in the passing of power into new hands.\par 
\tab Finally, the promise of protection from disease is perhaps the greatest boon a ruler can offer his people, and that protection is available only at the sufferance of the cult hierarchy. 
And, though magic has seldom had a decisive influence on the field of battle, an army\rquote s capacity to recover from a battle and to return wounded veterans to service is strictly dependent on the healing services of divine magicks
. And the comfort of knowing that a priest is available to ease suffering and heal even grievous wounds certainly has a beneficial effect on noble and peasant morale.\par 
\tab Until IC 2429, these three benefits were the exclusive province of magickal powers bestowed by the cult hierarchy. However, worldliness and corruption in the cult hierarchies and a popular cynicism about the pious preaching of priests 
had undermined the cults\rquote  moral power, while the increasing economic and social independence of the aristocracy shifted power and influence from cult divines to temporal princes.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Count Leopold and The Battle of Grouche Marsh\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab In IC 2429, Marienburg declared its independence from Imperial control. 
Emperor Dieter IV, under pressure from the Council and the Grand Theogonist to curb the growing unrest and secessionist sentiment in Marienburg and the Wastelands province, cha
rged Count Bruno von der Waldemar, a noted knight and general, with a military expedition to lay siege to and occupy the port city of Marienburg.\par 
\tab In the decisive battle of the campaign, Count Bruno\rquote s forces, vastly superior in arms and number, faced a motley force of freemen and militia across the marshy ground northeast of the Marienburg. 
Secure in the blessing of Sigmar, and in strength of arms, the Count expected to sleep that evening in a comfortable bed in Marienburg.\par 
\tab Instead, the Count spent that evening on the road among the disordered and demoralized remnants of his force, in full retreat from Marienburg. He had been defeated, he later learned, by 
approximately two score minor sorcerors and three master elementalists (Sea Elven mercenaries). These magicians, using Battle spells that were the forgotten legacy of the Great Goblin Wars, denied passage across narrow lanes of dry land through the marsh, 
while striking repeatedly at the exposed flanks of columns on these narrow lanes. Fireballs blasted and decimated heavy cavalry units. Spells permitted the enemy to move freely and swiftly through the difficult terrain, while other magick
s mired advancing forces in illusory avenues of solid ground.\par 
\tab By the end of the day, Bruno had lost 20% of his forces, with most of these among the ranks of mounted nobles and knights. The defenders of Marienburg had scarcely suffered casualties of 1%, and had denied Bruno all of his tactical objectives. 
Leopold had repeatedly implored his priests and heroes to find some way to neutralize the handful of magicians which were frustrating his entire army, but they were completely helpless against the specialized Battle magicks of the Marienburg sorcerors.
\par 
\tab Upon his return to Nuln, Bruno persuaded the Emperor that the military security of the Empire depended on sorcerous magicks at the command of loyal servants of the Emperor.\par 
\tab Dieter IV summoned the Grand Theogonist and the High Priest of Ulric, and pointedly inquired of them whether there was any reason why the Emperor should
 not, for the greater glory and security of the Empire, establish a War College for sorcerors, to serve at the pleasure and discretion of the Emperor in the armies of the Reikland. 
Having duly heard and acknowledged their impassioned protests, he thanked them, dismissed them, and set about drafting an Imperial charter establishing the first Imperial Institute of Battle Magicks.\par 
\tab Dieter IV was eventually able to obtain the grudging blessing of the Cult of Ulric for his War College. By playing the Sigmar and U
lric cults off against one another, Dieter IV managed to neutralize the political pressures which might otherwise have resulted in the appointment of a new emperor. 
However, in the end, conflicts with the cults over this issue, and unfounded rumors that the Marienburg campaign had not been a military failure, but that Dieter\~IV had accepted bribes from the Burgermeisters to ensure the independence of Marienburg, 
were to result in Dieter IV\rquote s fall from power, and the discrediting of his dynasty.\par 
\tab Nonetheless, Dieter IV's successors were forced to endorse his policies in order to maintain the security of the Reich. By this time, other Old World nations had grown increasingly reliant on battle magicks for planning military strategy. 
Rulers and nobles throughout the Old World were disregarding priestly censure and employing sorcerors as advisors, retainers, bodyguards, and craftsmen. Those nations where the cults held the line against the legitimization of battle sorcery quickly found 
themselves wanting in the balance of military power.\par 
\tab Originally the imperial charter permitted the study and practice of sorcery only for military purposes, and only under the authority of the Emperor. Later the right to employ sorcerers was extended by imperial decree to the nobility. 
Specific charters were granted to certain families to engage sorcerors for specific purposes, primarily as arcane physicians, or as mercenary auxiliaries in the defense of the Empire. The great academies of sorcery were also chartered at this time, 
and placed under the supervision and protection of the Emperor.\par 
\tab Finally, in IC 2452, Wilhelm III made the practice of four sorcerous academic disciplines (wizardry, elementalism, mentalism, and alchemy) legal in the Reich, declaring null and void the ancient cult laws against witchcraft. 
In this proclamation Wilhelm III declared that certain sorcerous practices, including necromancy and {daemon}ology, were to remain illegal, and to be considered treason.\par 
\tab In this proclamation Wilhelm III also established the four academies of sorcery and the magick guilds, and granted them the right to make laws restricting the practice of magick
 in the Empire, and gave them the power to establish penalties and stand in judgment over offenders. Even in present times, most study and research in the academies of sorcery is
 confined to spells and enchantments with military applications, and numerous unfortunate incidents in the early days of the academies proved that sorcerors could cause a great deal of mischief without the 
effective cooperation of guilds, academies, and sovereigns in restraining irresponsible and criminal abuses of the sorcerous arts. \par 
\tab 
Wilhelm perceptively realized that the academies and guilds had a vested interest in preventing disturbances which might turn the people, the merchant class, and the nobility against them. The academies and guilds have established extensive regulations co
ncerning the practice of magick in the Empire, and have been fairly successful in policing their own ranks. Their success is probably at least partially attributable to the imposing resources they command in the pursuit and apprehension of 
malefactors, and the gruesome ingenuity and enthusiasm they invest in the public spectacles of their sentences and executions.\par 
\tab Wilhelm\rquote s proclamation only specifically legitimized the practice of sorceries of the four academies. However, in rescinding the ancient cult prohibitions against sorcery, the status of hedgewizardry is left somewhat ambiguous. 
Since these magicks are primarily practiced by poor, rural peoples, the matter is of little consequence to the noble and merchant classes of the Empire. The Academies have construed their authority to include the pursuit and judgment
 of sorcerors that clearly imperil the public welfare, pyromaniacs, highwaymen, and bandits employing sorcery, in particular,
 but they are less diligent in policing the petty frauds and nuisances occasionally perpetrated by backwoods hedgewizards. The rural folk have adopted their own rough, informal style of justice to deal with these wayward spellcasters.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 The Three Estates of Magic in the Old World\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The so-called \ldblquote Three Estates\rdblquote  refer to the three major institutions of magickal practice in the human cultures of the Modern Old World.\par 
\tab The First Estate is Divine Magic{k}s, the oldest and most conservative tradition of human magicks. The practice of magic in the cult of the Earth Mother extends in an unbroken line back through the millennia
 into the obscurity of prehistory, and many historical cults still count their lineage in tens of centuries. The magick
al abilities of cult practitioners are universally recognized as the gifts of the gods; man does not shape these powers, but humbly accepts them in the forms chosen by their divine patrons.\par 
\tab 
There is no progressive vision of increasing power or variety of magickal effects associated with Divine Magicks. In fact, a common theme in most cult philosophies is that the abundance, power, and variety of divine magic has greatly decreased from a semi
-mythic, semi-historical Golden Age of the Distant Past, and that the increasing secularism of the modern world promises an even-greater diminishing of the magickal powers of the cults.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }GM Notes{: }
The presence and influence of divine magicks in the Old World are public and pervasive, in both rural and urban regions. Practitioners of divine magicks tend to be conservative, highly principled, and dominated by rivalries among competing cults{. }
PC clerics often are inspired by cult principles, but in this secular age more and more clerics are self-serving or political in motivation.\par 
\tab Many spells and rituals are specific to individual cults{. }New spells are rare, but magic{k}al objects of ancient or obscure religions, or lost spells or practices, provide occasional sources of {magickal} novelty.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The Second Estate is Hedgewizardry. Always condemned and persecuted by the cults, Primitive Sorcery is obscure in its origins, though variously thought to have grown from sorcery learned from Elven
 and Dwarven mentors, to have been the invention of renegade divine magicians, or to have been purchased at dire cost from daemonic sources. 
Because of cult persecution, transmission of the practices of Hedgewizardry from generation to generation has always been furtive and unreliable; certainly, a great many magickal
 wonders have been discovered, only to be lost with the death of their discoverers. Even at present, Primitive Sorcery tends to be quite modest in power and eclectic in its methods and sources, though in the past individual practitioners have occasiona
lly risen to levels of achievement rivaling the greatest of modern Academic Sorcerors.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }GM Notes{: }The practice of Hedgewizardry is typically confined to rural and wilderness regions. Hedgewizards are few and furtive, {and }
generally eccentric, varying greatly in style, ambition, and principles. Most hedgewizards are solitary and independent, though several modest clandestine societies provide communications and mutual defense against cult persecution{. }
Spells and rituals are widely varied in effects, but relatively weak in power{. }With the increasing tolerance of sorcery, some hedgewizards hope to make fortunes openly practicing the skills th{ey hitherto had to keep secret; others, s}
keptical of the current tolerant climate{,} remain in seclusion, anticipating a return of cult persecutions{. }
Since many persons still fear and scorn sorcerors, the safest place to practice hedgewizardry is in the wilderness, in expansionist Imperialism, or in individual treasure-hunting.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The Third Estate is Academic Sorcery, the systematic study of the magickal sciences in academies sanctioned and supported by the State. Originally established by ruling princes to provide their armies with ever more 
powerful War Wizards, the academies now graduate in increasing numbers sorcerors who find employment among the aristocracy and mercantile interests. The dominating ethic of Academic Sorcery is the expansion of magickal
 knowledge and practice, with the immediate goal of enhancing the power and security of the state (or the financial interests of their employers), and with the long-term goal of transforming society with the wonders of magickal technology.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }GM Notes{: }
Academic sorcery is officially sanctioned but widely disapproved, feared, and distrusted. In larger urban areas where the academies and guilds are prominent, tolerance or respect is more common. Academic sorcery is rigidly formal in methods, principles, an
d structures of authority and regulation, but dynamic in ambition and expectations. Spell and ritual magick effects are typically rather 
more narrow and specialized, and often more powerful. PC academic sorcerors are often hired by wealthy patrons or adventurers, or dispatched on missions for the state{. }
Recent graduates are also free to try their luck at adventuring, though academics generally prefer the easier life of steady employment, and may require a sizable, non-portable lab and library for their researches.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\par 
}\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 The Four Academies of Sorcery\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 War Wizardry{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The Imperial Institute of Battle Magicks, also known as the War College or the Academy of War Wizardry, is the largest of the academic sorcerous disciplines. 
Based on the ancient Battle Magicks descended from Elven and Dwarven sources, Wizardry is primarily concerned with the military applications of sorcery. The ancient Battle Magick
 spells and rituals are narrowly defined, but relatively quick in casting and reliable: important considerations for battlefield use. War Wizards are generalist sorcerors; as such their effects are typically more modest in power than those of the other
 disciplines, but their versatility lets them improvise and adapt to circumstances more effectively than other sorcerous specialists. (Thus, if you can have only one sorcerer to support your expedition, a war wizard is often the best choice.)\par 
\tab The atmosphere in War Colleges is competitive and aggressive. Scholarship in itself is discouraged; wizards are supposed to learn how to use magick on the battlefield, not to spend hours poring through dusty volumes searching for arcane knowledge. 
Drill and mock-combat is an important part of the curriculum, and the practice of magickal dueling for sport and honor, while publicly discouraged, is privately encouraged by guild elders.\par 
\tab Consequently, many war 
wizards are obsessively proud, quick to take offense, and impulsively violent in protecting their honor. In combat they are trained to avoid hand-to-hand engagement or exposure to missile fire, but they are otherwise aggressive in exercising their destruct
ive abilities. Wizards are also trained to play a defensive role, particularly in scouting and small group tactics, where their spells are particularly effective. Wizards with more gentle, 
intellectual dispositions are steered into quiet postings with lesser nobles and secure garrisons, or remain at the academy as researchers and instructors. Such rarely become adventurers, except through misfortune or desperate circumstance.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Elementalism{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Elementalists trace their traditions from the earliest human sorcerors, those Great Druids who turned their backs on the worship of the Earth Mother and turned their knowledge of the First Runes, 
the Great Pacts, and the Elemental Powers and Dominions to their own purposes. Though, like other sorcerors, Elementalists employ 
a number of relatively simple spells handed down from ancient Elven and Dwarven magickal practice, the core of Elementalist magickal muscle depends on the summoning of Elemental entities.\par 
\tab In many ways, Elementalists are closer to divine spellcasters than the rest of their sorcerous colleagues, because their powers depend on their relationship with the magickal entities of the Elemental Dominions. 
Some Elemental entities may be commanded, some must be bargained with, some must be entreated with worship and respect. 
Entities from each of the Dominions have their own distinctive personalities, motivations, and history of relations with man, and each must be treated with individual care and understanding. 
In this sense, an Elementalist is something like a priest dealing with gods and their lesser divine servants, t
hough the Elemental Powers are generally less powerful and capricious than the gods, and they are bound to the service of man by the Great Pacts, which oblige them to treat Elementalists more as equals than worshippers.\par 
\tab 
Because of their close relationship with nature and the Elements, and because of the unreliable and potentially dangerous character of their Elemental servants, Elementalists spend more time in the trackless wilds than they do in study at the universities
. Elementalists prefer to operate in the wilderness, where they can be less concerned for public safety when their Elemental charges get out of hand.\par 
\tab Elementalists have a reputation for indifference to worldly goods, and are most likely to be motivated by desire for more knowledge and power in the Elemental Dominions for its own sake. 
They are also generally more venturesome than their bookish brethren.\par 
\tab Since Elemental powers, like battle elephants, have a reputation for turning on their own forces, they are of limited popularity among generals, though many armies employ Elementalists for sieges and other special situations.\par 
\tab 
Unlike the other sorcerous professions, Elementalists have a relaxed attitude toward formal institutions and personal status. They respond poorly to discipline, and are known for wandering off on their own for extended periods without so much as a by-your
-leave. This eccentric behavior is tolerated with resignation by the state and military, partly in acknowledgment of the Elementalists peculiar psychological needs, and partly because folks are perfectly happy to have them practice their Elemental 
summonings at a safe distance from flammable structures and innocent bystanders.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Mentalism{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Mentalists, popularly known as Illusionists, specialize in the manipulation of mind and perception. Their castings usually work directly on the m
ind of the subject, though they also have spells which produce magickal external images and impressions.\par 
\tab Such castings have numerous battlefield applications, and Mentalists do play an important part in Old World military strategies. However, Mentalists also play a variety of valuable peacetime roles. 
As entertainers, they are very effective, particularly when supporting more traditional presentations of the dramatic and performance arts, or when presenting colorful magickal pageants
 at fairs and state celebrations. Mentalists also play a more sinister peacetime role in the diplomatic and intelligence corps, where their persuasive, distracting, and concealing magicks are of great value.\par 
\tab Though M
entalists are obligated to military and state service like all other state-sanctioned sorcerors, they quickly find their way into the service of important state officials, merchants, and nobles, where they are much in demand as counselors and consultants
. Ostensibly they are tightly bound by the strict ethical codes of their profession, as established by the guilds and academies. 
Mentalists are enjoined to practice their magicks only for the welfare of the people and the sovereign, and explicitly prohibited
 from using their sorcerous abilities for the advancement or profit of themselves or their patrons or masters. The punishments for offenses against the ethical codes are harsh and vigorously prosecuted, but in practice many Mentalists casually bend the let
ter of the codes to suit their purposes, while other Mentalists ignore the codes so long as they have a reasonable chance of avoiding discovery.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Alchemy{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Alchemy produces magickal effects from the distillation, preparation, preservation, and enhancement of the magickal properties inherent in various substances and aethyrs.\par 
\tab Alchemists themselves do not often appear on the battlefield, but their products often do. These products (elixirs, tinctures, dusts, powders, gases, solutions, and compounds) can be employed by scouts, soldiers, and heroes during battles. 
In practice, the great expense of producing alchemicals, and their short shelf life, limit their availability. In combat, these scarce resources are usually distributed only to key personnel with spec
ial missions, or to nobles, heroes, and generals of particular importance to the preservation of the state.\par 
\tab In times of war, all alchemists are assigned to the support roles with various military units. 
In times of peace, all but a few staff military and state alchemists are permitted to pursue private trade in their wares. Most of the products sold to the citizenry are modest and unambiguously beneficial in nature, like herbal potions and love philters
. Alchemists are forbidden by law to sell alchemicals with military applications (i.e., poisons, flight elixirs, Greek Fire, etc.) to private citizens without license from the state, academy, or guild, 
but such trade is lucrative for alchemists, and the law is loosely enforced. Adventurers and criminals with ready cash generally have no trouble finding an alchemist who will provide alchemicals to order.\par 
\tab Alchemists are either entrepreneurs or scholars by temperament. As entrepreneurs they produce what their clientele requires, and try to produce it cheaply and sell it dearly. 
Such men rarely seek adventure except where there is a profit, and even then would prefer to hire someone else for the dangerous stuff. As scholars they tend to be colorful, 
flaky crackpots, searching for mythical alchemical processes for transmuting lead to gold or for making flesh transparent (both considered impossible by sorcery experts). 
They spend most of their time in labs breathing poisonous fumes and heating volatile fluids over open flames, but the more obsessive might travel to the ends of the earth to solve one of the great mysteries of alchemy.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 The Outlawed Magicks: Necromancy and {Daemon}ology\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Necromancy{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Most cults of the Old World prohibit summoning, command, or binding of the Spirit after the death of the Flesh, except by the agency of a cult priest, where the consent of the deity is presumed. 
Further, most Old World cults prohibit the animation of the Flesh without the unity with the Spirit vouchsafed unto that Flesh by the gods at that being\rquote s birth. These strictures usually 
interpreted to include prohibition against animation of artificial creatures of Flesh, such as golems, as well as animation of corpses of beings abandoned by the Spirit at death. 
Thus, while the Old World cults have grudgingly accepted the legalization of most sorcerous practices, it is doubtful that they will ever accept legalization of necromancy.\par 
\tab Further, necromancy is historically associated in the minds of Old Worlders with undead armies and ruthless conquering invaders. Apart from cult proscriptions agai
nst the Walking Dead, horror and disgust at the prospect of combat with skeletons and corpses prevent Old Worlders from conceiving of Necromancy as anything other than an evil practice.\par 
\tab Nonetheless, over the protests of the cults, a number of Old World sovereigns have granted charters for limited study and practice of necromancy under the careful scrutiny of the Magick Guilds, the academies, and the state. 
The rationale is that, in order to protect oneself from necromancy, one must understand its technologies, and must be prepared to turn them against those who would abuse them.\par 
\tab Only a handful of chartered Necromancers may be found in a given country, and most of low rank. Such are generally performing research with an academy or guild, or serving as advisors and support personnel in the military. 
These Necromancers usually appear in public under assumed names and identities, because of cult and public hatred and fear of Necromancers. When assigned missions by guild, academy or state, they often pose as travelers, adventurers and explorers. 
Most are trained in another sorcerous discipline, and able to present themselves as wizards, elementalists, or other professionals to outsiders.\par 
\tab The grim nature of their profession has made sanctioned Necromancers a particularly serious and dedicated breed. 
They abhor the abuses of the Necromantic arts all the more for their intimacy with their methods, and pursue evil Necromancers with a ruthless fanaticism.\par 
\tab No one knows how many Necromancers practice outside the law in the Old World. There are believed to be several secret orders of Necromancers (e.g., The Dead Man\rquote s Taper). Legends suggest that the oldest and most powerful
 living sorcerors in the Old World are ancient High and Dark Elven Necromancers who have used their arcane arts to preserve Flesh and Spirit, perhaps for as long as four or five thousand years. 
Certainly most of these sorcerors would be considered evil by most decent folk, though to judge a 4000-year-old High Elven Necromancer by the standards of a normal mortal might be a fruitless enterprise.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Daemonology{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Most Old World cults maintain that communication, negotiation, and worship of daemons in any form is evil, and in most Old World nations, the practice of Daemonology is a capital crime.\par 
\tab Historically, daemon cultists which worship the Four Great Powers of Chaos (Tzeentch, Nurgle, Khorne, and Slaneesh), {\b not} daemonic sorcerors, are responsible for daemonology\rquote s evil reputation. Though from a human perspective
 most daemons are apparently either individually evil or aligned with evil divine masters, many independent daemonic entities are neutral or even benign in nature. Properly used, the term \ldblquote daemon\rdblquote  simply means \ldblquote lesser spirits
\rdblquote , beings of an aethyrial nature which are more powerful than man, but too weak to be considered \ldblquote divine\rdblquote  powers.\par 
\tab Several academies have received charters sanctioning limited study and practice of daemon conjuration. In some academies the charters have been kept secret; in others the charters are conditional on the supervision of cooperating cult authorities. 
Presently most charters are limited to the summoning of daemons for research and historical purposes. Cult objections make battlefield roles for daemonologists unlikely in the foreseeable future, except against monstrous or Chaotic armies. 
Guilds and academies also approve the loan of expert daemonologists for various state and private enterprises.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }GM Note{: }Though Necromancers and Daemonologists often conceal their identities from the public, player character Necromancers and Daemonologists should generally be recognized as such by their fellow party members{. }
Concealing identity and abilities from other players is impractical in session play, and even with experienced players may lead to distrust and paranoia which {interferes} with cooperative play.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 \ldblquote What is Magic{k} Anyway?\rdblquote : {Some} Notions of Sorcery\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
{\ul Farmer}: \ldblquote It goes on over at the shrine\'c9 what the priest does. And\'c9 I suppose you\rquote d say it's what witches do\'c9 spells and curses and all. My brother bought a love charm from a hedgewizard once. 
A wizard came through here last fall and made a color show for the fair. Is that what you mean?\rdblquote \par 
\par 
{\ul Crusty Village Elder}: \ldblquote The whole world is magick, boy. Everything in it is magick. But you mean who does magick tricks and how, don\rquote t you? Well, here the only magick we see comes from the priests\'c9 
healing, curing disease, breaking the drought, and so on. All that magick comes from the gods; the priests tell you so, though the way they stand around looking for congratulations and gifts, you\rquote d think they\rquote d done all the work. 
The priests tell you that witches are evil devil worshippers, and there\rquote s something to that, but lots of hedgewizards are right as rain, and there\rquote s no call lumping them in with the crones.\par 
\par 
{\ul Worldly Citizen, Small City}: \ldblquote Magick? It\rquote s that\'c9 that\'c9 eethur stuff or something, isn\rquote t it? Cousin\rquote s a grenadier, guards the wizards when they go on maneuver. Tried to explain it to me\'c9 
something about igniting the eethur with incantations, and commanding elementals and stuff. Too much for me, mate. Damned if I know what the priests do, blessing the walls and such\'c9 
could be that eethur stuff, but they keep it a big secret, lots of mumbo-jumbo, so they can dazzle the ploughboys.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
{\ul Priest of Sigmar}: \ldblquote Magick is the nature of the world, and all that is in it. Every being, from the least maggot to the Great Sigmar, is a being of wonder and magick. But, sadly, magick
 is not of itself a good thing; much that men wonder at as\'c9 magickal\'c9 is profoundly evil.\par 
\tab \ldblquote There are many Great Powers: Ulric, Manann, Shallya, the Earth Mother, the Daemon Princes, all with great magickal powers, all who are willing to share their powers with their followers\'c9 for a price. Which are good? Which are evil? 
How shall man judge, insignificant and foolish as he is? I cannot say, not for another man, but I say, look on their works, and the works of their followers, and judge in your heart. \par 
\tab \ldblquote I have chosen to serve Sigmar, because, as mighty as he is, he still remembers that he was a man, and he looks up
on men with compassion and forgiveness, and knows their troubles, and would share them. Sigmar is strong, yes, but I choose him not because he is strong, but because he is right.\par 
\tab \ldblquote That is the question of the nature of magick; do not ask of its power, but ask which it serves, good or evil?\rdblquote \par 
\par 
{\ul Prosperous Burgher}: \ldblquote You\rquote re serious?\'c9 Oh, you mean, what is it, philosophically speaking. Power, my boy, power of the aethyr. Wizards and priests channel power from the elements and make it do work for them. Pri
ests had a monopoly on it for centuries, and used it to keep the people in line. Now the Colleges are turning out solid journeymen who work magick like it was wood or leather. 
Prices are still pretty steep, but a man with a little money can own a magic trinket all his own, something only a bishop or king could have owned just half a century ago. Now that\rquote s progress, young man.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
{\ul College Student}: \ldblquote Aethyr is the fifth element, the element of pure energy without substance. It occupies no space, but is everywhere. It has no substance, but all substance is in some way linked with it. 
All cult and sorcerous magic depends on the manipulation of aethyr, and through aethyr, the other four elements. 
Cult magicians do not manipulate the aethyr directly, but through the agency of their divine patrons, who are themselves primarily of an aethyrial nature. 
Sorcerors manipulate the aethyr directly, through arcane incantation and symbol, or manipulate aethyrial beings who in turn manipulate the aethyr and other elements\'c9
 Of course, this is all a lot of blather right now, as far as I understand. The stuff my profs talk about\'c9 well, a lot of it goes right over my head, I admit.\rdblquote \par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Sorcerors and Chaos\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Historically human cultures have forbidden the study and practice of Chaos magicks. Spellcasters popularly known as \ldblquote Chaos sorcerors\rdblquote  are not sorcerors, in fact, but divine spellcasters:
 Chaos priests and heroes whose magickal powers derive from their association with various Powers of Chaos and subordinate daemonic powers.\par 
\tab Nonetheless, the Old Slann and Dark Elven sorcerous traditions are thought to have embraced Chaos magicks, and the Skavens\rquote  magickal-alchemical harnessing of the energies of Warpstone are well-documented. 
Further, studies of Warpstone and its alchemical and mutational properties are permitted on a limited basis in the academies and guild, and practiced illegally in secret by Chaos cultists and reckless, unprincipled sorcerous researchers. 
Thus the seductive and corrupting influences of Chaos must be recognized as a constant threat to the high principles of the sanctioned Old World sorcerous academies and guilds.\par 
\tab All recognized Old World sorcerous guilds and academies prohibit all experimentation with Chaos magicks. Warpstone sorceries may be studied and practiced only under the strict supervision.\par 
\tab In principle the guilds and academies have pledged full support of all state and cult campaigns to fight the encroachments of Chaos; in practice, sorcerous organizations fight Chaos through two major channels. Th
e primary channel is through magickal support units and support personnel trained and attached to most Old World military forces when on campaign against Chaos enemies. 
A secondary but crucial alternative channel is through the private investigatory and policing functions of the individual guilds and academies.\par 
\tab The sorcerous disciplines have made much of their ability to police their own ranks and eliminate any taint of Chaos in overzealous and unprincipled researchers. At the behest of local rulers and cu
lt leaders, guilds and academies also dispatch specialists to deal with enigmatic reports of mutant, Beastman, Skaven, Daemonic, or Chaos cult activities.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }
GM Note: Even though most academic sorcerors privately acknowledge that all magick power is derived ultimately from the Sea of Chaos that lies beyond the material world, the universal fear and loathing directed at Chaotic beings and their hateful, destruct
ive natures makes it unwise to openly acknowledge Chaos as the foundation of sorcerous magick. Inste
ad, sorcerors refer to aethyr, the magickal energy component present in abundance in Chaos, as the source of magick power manifested in sorcerous practices.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Notes on Some Aspects of Magick in the Warhammer Universe}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
{\fs28 Universal Principles of Warhammer Magick\par 
}\tab {\ul Substance, Aethyr, and Magickal Abilities}: All substance has an associated personality, an aethyrial presence which is its magickal essence. Non-living material, plants, and animals have personalities, but thes
e personalities are generally not self-aware (exceptions include ents, totemic animals, and elemental beings). I
ntelligent beings (including, but not limited to, humans, dwarves, elves, goblins, lizardmen, pixies, daemons, and gods) have self-aware personalities. Some intelligent beings (i.e.
, sorcerors, spirits, and daemons) are capable of manipulating the aethyr to produce magickal effects. Other intelligent beings (i.e., cult priests, druids, most Chaos cultists and mutants) cannot produce magickal effects t
hemselves, but can call upon more powerful patrons to produce the magickal effects on request. Some scholars theorize that all intelligent, self-aware beings have the innate capacity to produce magick effects, while others believe that 
cultural and inherited factors limit and determine an individual's ability to work magick.\par 
\tab {\ul Runes and Lingua Praestantia}: Most magickal effects are produced through an inherent or acquired mastery of {\b lingua praestantia} and its related written form, Runes. Exceptions includ
e Chaos mutations and other magickal effects produced by Warpstone.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Divine Magicks\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul The Old Faith: Druids and Worshippers of the Earth Mother}{: }Druids, the initiates and priests of this incomprehensibly ancient cult, have access to impressive but enigmatic magickal powers, primarily associa
ted with nature and natural forces. 
Magickal abilities peculiar to this cult include communication and influence with plants and animals, with elemental beings and their manifestations in weather and geological forces, and with phenomena associated with the sun, moon, stars, and other heaven
ly bodies. Many of these magickal abilities have been incorrectly identified with witchcraft in the teachings of Old World cults, so druids are widely regarded with suspicion and distrust.\par 
\tab {\ul The Young Gods: Priests and Followers of the Old World Cults}: Initiates and priests of the various Old World cults are granted magickal powers by the deities known as the Young Gods, the righteous offspring of the Earth Mother. I
n the Empire, the most commonly worshipped Young Gods are Manann, Morr, Myrmidia, Ranald, Shallya, Taal and Rhya, Ulric, Verena, and Sigmar; in other nations, other Young Gods are more prominent. 
In general, priests and initiates of the Young Gods share a variety of common magickal abilities,
 usually associated with worship and sacred ground, protection of cult followers, health and healing, and augury and prophecy. Each cult also has its share of spells and rituals peculiar to its own goals and beliefs.\par 
\tab {\ul The Dark Children: Priest and Followers of Outlawed Cults}: 
Two divine offspring of the Earth Mother are regarded as depraved renegade gods. Hecate and her worshippers, known as the Dark Druids, are responsible for most magickal practices regarded as witchcraft. The worship of Khaine, the god 
of Homicidal Mania and Immortal Madness, is the source of necromantic magicks which summon insane immortal spirits from beyond the void to serve Khaine\rquote 
s implacable hatred for his brothers and sisters, the Young Gods, for his mother, the Earth Mother, and for all living things that they hold dear. 
(Necromantic instability, the ebb and flow of magickal energies sustaining necromantic manifestations, is a phenomenon limited to the divine necromancies of Khaine, caused by the unstable nature of magickal links 
through Chaos from Khaine's shadowrealm, the Realm of the Raving Dead, to the Mundane World.)\par 
\tab {\ul The }{\ul Chaos Gods}: 
The Gods of Chaos gained access to the Warhammer World as a result of the collapse of Warp Gates of Old Slannish design. The most prominent Chaos Gods are the Four Great Powers: Khorne, Nurgle, Tzeentch, Slaneesh. Lesser Powers of Chaos include Malal, Zuva
ssin, Necoho, Alluminas, Arianka, and Solkan. These beings are known to Warhammer World\rquote s inhabitants as the rulers of shadowrealms beyond the void. 
As a result of the collapse of the Warp Gates, these beings and their fiendish minions have been able to enter Warhammer and transform vast regions of the world (the Northern and Southern Chaos Wastes) into inchoate
 images of their own Shadowrealms of Chaos.\par 
\tab The magickal powers granted to their followers are fearsome and horrible. The Gods of Chaos generally care little for the fates of the mortals that follow them; their worshippers are typically deranged by a lust for limitless power, unknowable wisdom
, unrestrained pleasures, immortality, or other experiences beyond those of mortal men.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }
GM Note: Some divine scholars have divided the Gods of Chaos into two groups, the Gods of Law and the Gods of Chaos. The distinction is made commonly in the ethical teachings of the cults, but sorcerors avoid this misleading dichotomy, noting that all of t
hese gods have entered Warhammer from Chaos, and are C{haotic in nature and substance.}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul The Material Universe}: Warhammer is only a minor world in a vast universe of ot
her worlds. The sun, the moons, and the planets known to astronomers, as well as the myriad stars of the night sky, are other worlds, unimaginably distant from Warhammer, and populated with their own gods, daemons, spirits, and other more modest living cre
atures.\par 
\tab About these other worlds little is known, because between our world and these distant worlds lies the Great Darkness, an illimitable region empty of all elemental matter save Darkness (one of the varied forms of Elemental Air). Because of the lack
 of elements essential to life in this region, no mundane beings can travel through the Great Darkness without special vehicles currently unknown to Old World science or sorcery. 
Gods, daemons, dragons, spirits, and other aethyrial beings are undaunted by the lack of elemental sustenance
, but the vast distances involved discourage even the most intrepid magickal travelers. The Old Slann were known to have voyaged across the width and breadth of this Sea of Darkness, but the secrets of their magickal transports 
are lost to Old World cultures.\par 
\tab {\ul The Chaos Universe}: Another universe, accessible only by magickal means, that lies beyond our own. This universe, also known as the Void
, exists everywhere coextensive with our material universe, and it may be entered or exited from any point in our universe. Chaos itself is a region without time or space, inhabited by lost souls, wandering daemons, and beings too bizarre to imagine. 
An aethyrial barrier called the Void Boundary forms the border between the Mundane World and Chaos. 
Magickal beings like gods, daemons, dragons, etc., may have abilities which permit them to travel and communicate across this boundary with little difficulty. 
Humans and other Warhammer peoples can only travel or communicate into and through Chaos through magick effects.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }GM Note: Because of the negative associations attached to the term \ldblquote chaos\rdblquote  by cult scholars, sorcerors {publicly} p{refer the use of the term }\ldblquote {void}\rdblquote { }to ref{
er to the Chaos Universe. }\ldblquote {Void}\rdblquote  specifically refers to the lack of structured material substance in Chaos, as contrasted with the substantial worlds of the Material Universe{. }The clumsy and illogica{
l technical uses of terms like }\ldblquote {chaos}\rdblquote { }and \ldblquote {void}\rdblquote { }may often appear confusing and contradictory, but in practice, scholars understand one an{other clearly in these matters.}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul The Shadowrealms}: Beyond the boundary of the Void lie innumerable shadowrealms. Some shadowrealms appear to be substantial worlds like Warhammer, but populated with different species and ruled by d
ifferent gods or laws of nature. Other shadowrealms are aethyrial worlds where the laws of magick rule, such as the various dominions of the Great Powers of Chaos, the Afterworlds of the Young Gods, and the myriad fantasy and nightmare worlds visited by Wa
rhammer folk in their dreams.\par 
\tab We know of the existence of these shadowrealms from legends of the Old Slann, who are believed to have been able to navigate through the Void to these other worlds, and from the often unreliable and obscure pronouncements of 
various daemons and Warhammer gods. Throughout history there are numerous legends of sorcerors, divines, heroes, and magickal beings making journeys to various shadowrealms.\par 
\tab The most common tales concern journeys to the various Afterworlds (see below). Other common tales tell of
 journeys to the abodes of the Young Gods and the Gods of Chaos, and with Heroquests in strange universes, designed to test the virtue and prowess of divine candidates for sainthood and godhood.\par 
\tab 
There are also tales of travels to a strange universe known as The Dark Future, a grim world of violent men, fleet machines, and marvelous engines of death, and of an even-more-distant universe called the Imperium, where an Eternal Emperor has sat upon th
e Golden Throne of Earth for ten million years, where travel across the Great Darkness is a commonplace, and where the races of Man, Dwarf, Elf, Halfling, and Orc battle endlessly for control of worlds without number.\par 
\tab Access to these shadowrealms is almost impossibly difficult, involving a perilous voyage through the Void, and requiring arcane navigation and rare magickal devices of transport. 
Nonetheless, from various sources it is apparent that such voyages are possible, and the rewards of knowledge and arcane power are inducement enough to brave the risks.\par 
\tab {\ul The Afterworlds}: According to most Old World cult doctrines, after the death of the Body, the Soul is severed from the Body, but lingers nearby in the Void for less than an hour, then departs for one of the Afterworlds. 
Most Warhammer cults offer their own unique Afterworld. The cult membership of a being at its death determines which Afterworld the Soul travels to. 
The Afterworlds themselves are shadowrealms located beyond the Void, in universes not normally accessible from our universe, so the Soul normally is guided across the Void to the Afterworld by a Divine messenger (commonly known as Angels or Spirit Guides).
\par 
\tab Warhammer cults typically offer their followers the 
prospect of reincarnation with a new body and a new identity after a comfortable period of rest and reward in the Afterworld. The nature of the period of rest and reward, the physical aspects of the Afterworld, and the conditions and form of reincarnation 
vary according to the different promises made by the various Warhammer gods to their cult followers.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }GM Note: The {truth behind the }belief of Warhammer peoples in Afterworlds and Reincarnation has not been established as fact{. }Some cults insist that Souls lose their identi
ties immediately after death and become no more than indistinguishable elements in the Sea of Souls (a common cult term for the Chaos universe){. }
However, there is abundant, persuasive evidence that at least some Souls retain their identities after death, as is best indicated by the small but significant number of individuals{,} many of great historic importance{,} who recall the 
material and spiritual experiences of their {past }lives{. }The cults point to these well-documented and studied cases as proof of their doctrine{. }
The scholars of the Academies and Magick Guild are more cautious, insisting that these few cases cannot prove the more general doctrine that all individuals go to their reward in the Afterworld, and are subsequently reincarnated in a new life.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul The Realm of the Raving Dead}: Unlike other cults, the cult of the Khaine promises eternal continuance of personal identity, but offers no prospect of renewal of life. 
All Khaine cultists, and some beings who die without a cult commitment, are borne by Spectres to the Realm of the Raving Dead, Shadowrealm of Khaine, and the source of divine necromantic magicks. 
Here those Souls who deny death retain a vague, bitter, and cheerless existence, but nonetheless, one preferable to them over the loss of identity associated with reincarnation. 
Inhabitants of this Afterworld are scornful and bitter toward those living beings foolish enough to accept cult promises of reincarnation, which may partially explain the vigorous glee with which they slaughter the earthb
ound when summoned as Undead Warriors by Necromancers.\par 
\tab (As noted above, it is these Undead from the Realm of the Raving Dead that are associated with the principle of Instability, as a result of the unstable magickal links to Warhammer\~World from the Afterworld through the Void. 
Sorcerous Necromancy, a discipline that primarily animates fleshly artifacts, and binds spirits not yet summoned to the Afterworlds to deceased and artificial bodily hosts, is not subject to the forces of Instability.)\par 
\tab {\ul Lesser and Greater Spirits}: Lesser and Greater Spirits include all immortal aethyrial beings of magickal power too modest to be called \ldblquote divine\rdblquote , and too powerful to be simply \ldblquote mortal\rdblquote .
 These beings include elemental spirits, daemons, ancient rural and wilderness spirits, and divine servants.\par 
\tab {\ul Non-Divine Magickal Creatures}: Non-divine magickal creatures are beings of combined elemental and aethyrial substance where the earthly component is predominant. Typically these beings are mortal, unlike Lesser and Greater Spir
its, though they often possess substantial magickal abilities. Dragonkind, fimir, giants, trolls, and ogres are example of such beings.\par 
\tab {\ul Slannish Warp Gates and Portals}: An ancient race called the Old Slann were master sorcerors and enchanters. 
Among the relics of their culture are magickal Warp Gates and Portals which permit access across the Void Boundary into the Void and beyond. 
The presence of a few gates and portals is well-known through legend and ancient manuscript, but the actual locations of such passages to the void are closely guarded secrets of the guilds and master sorcerors. 
Scholars speculate that there may be many other gates and portals awaiting discovery.\par 
\tab {\ul Warpstone and Warp Dust}: A great quantity of aethyrial matter entered the Material World through the cataclysmic collapse of the old Warp Gates at the North and South Poles. 
This aethyrial matter manifests itself on this plane as the coarse, frothy, dense, metallic stone called Warpstone and the finer powdery substance called Warp Dust.
 These materials are the source of immense magickal power, and as such are prized by alchemists and sorcerors. However, living beings in close proximity to these substances are subject to mutations,
 a Chaotic derangement of normal bodily structures and functions. By law,
 the collection, purchase, or possession of Warpstone or Warp Dust is limited to those licensed by magick guild, academy, and sovereign to practice and experiment with such materials, though the high prices these substances command guarant
ee a healthy black market trade in them.\par 
\tab {\ul Mutants and Mutations}: Creatures tainted with Chaos, either as a result of exposure to Warpstone or Warp Dust, or through the agency of the Chaos cults, are subject to abnormal physical, mental, and magickal developments called mutations. 
Some mutations produce magickal abilities of a nature similar to divine magicks; others produce unique and horrible magickal effects unlike any known in divine or sorcerous magick.\par 
\tab {\ul Chaos Magicks}: The Gods of Chaos grant magickal powers to their followers, in much the same way that the Earth Mother and Young Gods grant their followers magickal spells and rituals. 
However, the spells and rituals of the Chaos cults are endlessly various, and often repulsive, irrational, and senselessly cruel and destructive in nature.\par 
\tab {\ul Skaven Magicks}: The Skaven, or Chaos Ratmen, as they are popularly known, are masters of a type of sorcery that specializes in alchemical-magickal applications of Warpstone and Warp Dust. Their devices, like Plague C
ensers and Poison Wind Globes, produce deadly battlefield magickal effects.\par 
\tab {\ul Battle Magicks}: 
Large-scale battlefield magick effects are produced by elaborate, expensive, time-consuming rituals that have little in common with the small-scale spells and rituals described in this volume. The Battle Magick disciplines are very conservative, deriving f
rom battlefield sorceries first practiced millennia ago in the Elf and Dwarf Wars. Modern Battle Magic rituals are for the most part unchanged from ancient times, though research and experimentation
 with new effects and procedures continue on a limited basis at most academies.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }
GM Note: By analogy, Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay spells and rituals correspond to the small arms of modern warfare, while Warhammer Fantasy Battle spells are equivalent to exotic chemical, biological, and nuclear weaponry available only to powerful nations 
with vast military budgets and advanced technical expertise{. }As such, Warhammer Fantasy Battle spells are of a technology too sophisticated
 and expensive for use by individuals or private organizations, and their practices are by law restricted to use by the military under the command of a nation\rquote s sovereign.\par 
\tab In short, though Fantasy Roleplay and Fantasy Battle magicks are derived from similar principles, the exaggerated scale of Battle Magicks precludes their inclusion in Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Chaos Wastes}: At the North and South Poles of Warhammer World are regions where the substance of Chaos has invaded the Material World through 
the collapsed Warp Gates. Here the laws and forces of nature, the land, sea, and sky, have been warped into unstable, nightmarish parodies of normal landscapes, populated by grotesque caricatures of normal lifeforms. In these
 nightmare landscapes the forces of the Gods of Chaos have been engaged in ceaseless warfare for centuries, for reasons incomprehensible to sane mortals.\par 
}