{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\qj\tx720\tx1800 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Guidelines;}{\s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext2 Chapter Heading;}{\s3\qj \b\f16 \sbasedon0\snext3 Section Heading;}{\s4\qj \f16 \sbasedon0\snext4 Subsection Heading;}}{\info}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\pgnstart0\makebackup\fracwidth {\*\nextfile perv.gov:Spell List Preface}\sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain \s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 Realms of Sorcery\tab Careers and Skills\tab Page {
\chpgn }\par 
}\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {Skills}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Magickal skills\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The following skills are often learned through sorcerous careers, but may be learned through various other careers, or may be learned as non-career skills. (Those sophisticated magickal skills which
 may not be learned as non-career skills are indicated in the skill descriptions below.) After the title of each skill is listed the skill\rquote s associated characteristic.\par 
\tab Each skill has a skill rating which is equal to the score of the character\rquote s associated characteristic score for that skill. 
Skill ratings may be used in two ways: 1. to test against in determining success or failure in the use of the skill, and 2. as a general indication of the character\rquote s competence in the skill. Gamemasters should use these competence guidelines to
 judge whether easy tasks might deserve a bonus for those of above-average competence, or whether difficult tasks might receive penalties for those of below average competence.\par 
\tab Use the following guidelines to judge a character\rquote s competence with a skill:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Rating\tab Skill Guideline}{\ul \tab }\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800 \tab 01-25\tab Below average for a person professing the skill, but more knowledgeable and adept than someone completely ignorant of the skill. May be a beginner, a dilettante, or a clod. 
Capable of competent work, but when hurried or careless, even if successful may produce only a barely passable or substandard level of work.\par 
\tab 26-50\tab Average for a person professing the skill. Fairly knowledgeable; doesn\rquote t embarrass himself in tavern discussions or boasting matches, but unfamiliar with eccentric, sophisticated, or innovative aspects of the skill. 
Capable of performing most common tasks effectively, given time, and making allowances for mistakes. Seldom brilliant, but occasionally clever or notably effective.\par 
\tab 51-75\tab Above average knowledge and competence. Often recognized by neighbors and colleagues as an expert. Very rarely makes serious mistakes with common tasks, and may be capable of occasional brilliance.\par 
\tab 76-00\tab Superhuman or heroic ability. Likely to have a substantial reputation. Difficult tasks are performed with ease. Impossible tasks may be attempted with enthusiasm.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Example #1: Hugyn has the Herb Lore skill. The associated characteristic for Herb Lore is Intelligence (Int). Hugyn has an Int score of 45. Hugyn\rquote s skill rating for Herb Lore is 45.\par 
\tab {\ul Testing for Success with the Skill}: Hugyn is looking in the woods for the herb Spiderleaf, easily found in the Reikwald in autumn. The dice are rolled and come up 67, indicating that Hugyn had a bad day, and didn\rquote t fin
d a single sprig of Spiderleaf.\par 
\tab Example #2: Thistledown Larkcall has the Herb Lore skill, too, but has an Int of 70.\par 
\tab {\ul General Indication of Competence}: Thistledown is hunting for Salwort, an herb in plentiful abundance. Since Thistledown is an expert, and the Salwort is so plentiful, the GM can\rquote t imagine how an expert could come back empty-handed. 
The GM assesses a bonus modifier of +25 (leaving some chance of failure). The dice are rolled: 98, and Thistledown proves that even an expert can have a bad day.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 Resist Magick (Will Power)\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Beings with this skill receive a +20 bonus to tests vs. WP to resist magick effects.\par 
\tab Background: The body\rquote s Spirit instinctively recognizes and resists intrusions of a magickal nature, as if the Spirit could \ldblquote smell\rdblquote  something unfamiliar and withdraw from it. 
With training and experience one can sharpen this defensive reflex.\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: Only certain types of magickal effects may be resisted. See \ldblquote Resisting Magickal Effects\rdblquote , page ??.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Sense Magick (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Active magickal effects cause perceptible disturbances in the aethyr. Use of this skill reveals 1. the presence of active magickal effects within BMP yards and 2. the direction from the character to the magickal effects.
\par 
\tab Unskilled characters have a Default Rating of 5% with this skill.\par 
\tab Inactive Magickal Effects (for example, inactive magickal artifacts, alchemicals, and scrolls) cannot be perceived with this skill. Thus, one cannot identify a being or object as being capable of producing magickal effect with this skill. (See 
\ldblquote Active and Inactive Magickal Effects\rdblquote  in Terms{ and Rules, Chapter 2}.)\par 
\tab Background: Aethyrial disturbances accompanying magickal effects are perceivable by the Spirit, though untrained individuals cannot effectively interpret the details of the sensations or distinguish the source of the emanations.\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: Use the following guidelines for modifiers to tests to sense exceptionally powerful magickal sources:\par 
\tab Active Alchemical Effects (e.g., a subject using a Troll Strength or Animal Speech elixir): +5 bonus{.}\par 
\tab Active Lesser Artifact Effects (e.g., an active Lesser Weapon or Lesser Rune Ring): +10 bonus{.}\par 
\tab Active Greater Artifact Effects (e.g., an active War Jewel or Flying Carpet): +20 bonus{.}\par 
\tab Divine Artifacts (e.g., magickal devices associated with greater and lesser divine powers): +20 bonus.\par 
{\tab Sense Magick replaces the original skills Magickal Sense and Magickal Awareness.\par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Meditation (Cool)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Beings with this skill are able to enter a dream-trance state in which they can swiftly replenish their reservoirs of magick potential.\par 
\tab The character remains in the meditation trance for 2 hours, then tests against Cool.\par 
\tab If the test is successful, the being recovers 100% of his Basic Magick Potential (i.e., he is restored to full CMP).\par 
\tab If the test fails by 1-29 points, the being is raised to 50% of his Basic Magick Potential. If he is already at 50% of his CMP or better, there is no further effect.\par 
\tab If the test fails by 30 points or more, the being recovers no magick points. In addition, if the roll is fumbled, 1 Insanity Point is gained.\par 
\tab While in a meditative trance, a being is unaware of its surroundings and cannot stir if attacked or otherwise disturbed for the duration of the 2-hour trance. They are completely helpless during the trance duration (treat as {\b prone}
 in combat), and cannot move, speak, or otherwise respond to other beings or events.\par 
\tab Background: The spirit enters into a dream state, permitting glancing penetration into the Chaos Realm, where magickal energy is drawn into the spirit through the anima. Dipping too shallowly into the Chaos Realm may prevent full replenishment. 
Dipping too deeply may cause serious mental shock and trauma\'c9 and no energy recovery.\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: If a being fails this mentally and emotionally demanding test, he may not try again for 24 hours.\par 
\tab At GM discretion, beings attempting meditation in unfavorable surroundings (bustling activity, loud noises, etc.) may receive penalties of 10-30 points to the Cool test. 
Likewise, beings in completely tranquil, familiar, secure surroundings may receive bonuses of 10-30 points.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Modern Arcane Language (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab All Academic Apprentices and some Hedgewizards learn this language for the study and recording of magickal procedures. Directions and incantations for scrolls and other modern magickal
 devices are also recorded in this all-purpose arcane tongue.\par 
\tab Background: Not so much a language as a primitive transcription scheme for {\b lingua praestantia}, with elaborate jargon and notation. 
Analogous to musical notation, in that the product of uttering and performing what is noted is not limited to the words, but includes also the subtle distinctions or rhythm, tone, pitch, and inflection involved in spell and ritual casting, and forms of men
tal imagery and symbology that focus the mind on the desired effect. Arcane transcription includes notes, directions, and commentaries on pronunciation and presentation of runes and {\b lingua praestantia}.\par 
\tab To one unfamiliar with Arcane Languages, Arcane documents look like schematic diagrams covered with runes, arrows, musical staffs and notes, and pictographs suggesting gestures, all annotated with symbols and words from various languages.\par 
\tab The roots of Modern Arcane are in Elven Arcane inscriptions, which display elements of Slannish orthography. During the long history of cult suppression of sorcery, Arcane usage had fragmented in use by isolated hedgewizards and secret orders. 
Today the language is academically formalized at lower Mastery Levels, but notation for more advanced spells is still personalized and idiosyncratic. 
Study of many as-yet-ill-understood spells of the ancient masters depends on shrewd guesses in interpreting their personal versions of Arcane.\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: A sorceror automatically recognizes Arcane written copies of spells he already knows. \~He may also recognize similar spells, at the gamemaster\rquote 
s discretion, though only a vague notion of similarity of nature and function is likely to be understood. (\ldblquote Well, you can\rquote t quite follow the inscriptions on the scroll, but it looks quite a bit like the Fireball spell you know.\rdblquote 
)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Ancient Arcane Languages (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Modern magick studies are for the most part a partial rediscovery of the more sophisticated magickal practices of the Old Slann and the High Elves. 
Records in other ancient languages, notably Old Dwarven and the secret scripts of the High Druids, may also contain passages of interest to magickal scholars and researchers. Other arcane languages of magickal
 significance are Daemon Tongue and Elemental Tongue.\par 
\tab When examining ancient magickal devices, knowledge of these Ancient Arcane notations is particularly valuable.\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: Ancient Arcane languages are encountered primarily through expeditions and adventures, and through encounters with notable, powerful NPC villains, patrons, and informants.\par 
\tab {\ul Old Slannish}: Known in the Old World primarily from cited references in ancient Elven documents, from a few inscriptions on ancient artifacts and ruined structures, and from several fragments of Slannish documents. 
Elven legends and scholarship maintain that the Dark Elves of the New World have archived substantial records in Old Slannish, and contacts with present-day Slann cultures of Lustria suggest the existence of more extensive records and artifa
cts in the ruins of the Old Slann civilization.\par 
\tab {\ul Arcane Dwarf}: Ancient Dwarven elemental magicks, probably derived from early cult practices and from contact with the High Elves, are generally agreed to be the foundation of modern human magickal sciences. 
With the collapse of Dwarven Imperial culture, most of the more sophisticated practices, particularly as pertains to subterranean and magico-mechanical engineering, have become obscure, even to Dwarven scholars. Artifacts and structures of the Imperial Dw
arven period commonly bear inscriptions in this Arcane language.\par 
\tab {\ul Arcane Elf}: This ancient magickal language of the High Elves is thought to be heavily influenced by borrowings from the Old Slann. 
Old World Wood Elven culture is believed to have suppressed knowledge of this language after their isolation from mainstream High Elven cultures. This arcane notation is understood in the Old World by a small, 
secretive, and widely-distributed community of Elven wizards, by some Sea Elven voyagers visiting the human lands, and by a handful of human academics. 
The language is probably better known among the High Elves of Albion and the Dark Elves of the New World.\par 
\tab {\ul Druidic}: Druidic inscriptions are exceedingly rare, possibly because Druidic is thought to be primarily a spoken language. 
Examples of such inscriptions are generally confined to stone megaliths, other sacred sites, and to certain artifacts of religious significance. Legend maintains that secret arcane Druidic chronicles exist dating back 10,000 years.\par 
\tab {\ul Daemon Tongue}: Study of Daemon Tongue has been outlawed by most human cults and cultures for millennia. Academic knowledge of this arcane notation is understandably limited. 
Daemon Tongue is possibly an artifact of Dark Elven design, derived phonetically from the speech of daemons, since daemons are not supposed to have need of a written language. Used in daemon conjuration and in the enchantment of daemonic artifacts.\par 
\tab {\ul Elemental Tongue}: Evidently derived phonetically from Druidic practice and recorded by early Imperial Dwarven scholars, though heavy borrowings from Arcane Elf suggest that the language may predate High Dwarven culture. 
The few texts known in the Old World are obscure and fragmentary, though words of Elemental Tongue derivation are common in Modern Arcane. Used in elemental conjuration and in the enchantment of Elemental Greater Artifacts.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Magick Lores (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A character skilled in a magick lore has practical or scholarly knowledge of magickal disciplines. This knowledge is generally insufficient for spellcasting, but sufficient for a recognition and a layman\rquote 
s appreciation of spell, ritual, and magickal artifact procedures and effects.\par 
\tab Background: Many academics and magickal practitioners study the basic principles and practices of various magickal professionals so as to recognize and appreciate them when they are encountered. 
Adventurers often develop understandings of a more practical nature from their experiences with magick and magick users.\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: A successful Intelligence test indicates that a character is familiar with the basic procedures, powers, and dangers presented by a magickal discipline. GM modifiers are appropriate for more common or more obscure magickal practices. 
(For example, recognizing the effects of the ever-popular {\i deepsleep} or {\i fireball} spells should be a embarrassingly easy, while identifying the runes sealing an Ancient Slann transport device should marvelously improbable.)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Scroll Lore (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The inscription of magickal spells upon specially-enchanted scrolls, and the casting of spells from such scrolls, is a practice learned from the High Elves. 
It is, in itself, a complex and sophisticated science, requiring specific materials and rituals in the preparation of the scrolls, and elaborate procedures in effectively casting spells from the scrolls. (See \ldblquote Scrolls\rdblquote , page ??.)\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: Knowledge of this lore is necessary, but not sufficient, to inscribe a spell or cast a spell from a scroll. Knowledge of the arcane language used to record the spell is also necessary. 
However, familiarity with scrolls in general may occasionally permit a character to recognize significant features of a spell inscribed in an unknown language (at the GM\rquote s discretion).\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Rune Lore (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab According to legend, runes are the written depiction of {\b lingua praestantia}, the language spoken by the gods. 
Runes are essential elements in all sorcery, and sorcerors usually carry focuses inscribed with the runes necessary to cast the spells and rituals he knows.\par 
\tab Though these signs are known to have great magickal power, ability to use that power is not conferred by simple recognition of those signs. Nonetheless, a scholar learned in rune lore may make many suppositions about the magickal
 powers of a caster from examination of his focus, and, when examining magickal devices and artifacts, may identify common magickal effects (that is, effects caused by most Petty and 1st Rank Battle Magicks) associated with the items.\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: At the GM\rquote s discretion, modifiers may apply. For example, more popular high-level spells (e.g., {\i lightning}, {\i excite panic}) may be easily recognized, while spells and rituals of outlawed practices like Daemon
ology and Necromancy may be difficult to recognize, even at 1st or 2nd Rank.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Daemon Lore (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The study and practice of daemonic conjuration and enchantment is outlawed in all civilized Old World societies. 
Nonetheless, abundant information about daemons, of varying degrees of accuracy and reliability, is available in popular folklore and scholarly literature, and certain Old World rulers permit limited and carefully-supervised research in this discipline. 
Daemon lore may prove useful in recognizing the work of daemons, daemonologists, and daemon worshippers, and may provide knowledge of practices effective in warding off daemons and their works, or in frustrating the rituals and sorceries of daemonologists 
or daemon-worshippers.\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: Fanatic enemies of daemon worshippers (e.g., cultists or professionals dedicated to eradicating such evils) often display special zeal in collecting details of occult practices. Apply GM modifiers at your discretion.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Rating\tab Skill Guideline\tab }\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800 \tab 01-25\tab Familiar with typical practices of daemon summoning (pentagrams, bargaining, duration, etc.); familiar with varieties of daemons summonable by First Rank daemonologists.\par 
\tab 26-50\tab General knowledge of common Daemons of Chaos and Chaos cult practices; knowledgeable concerning magickal powers of all ranks of daemonologists.\par 
\tab 51-75\tab Familiar with powers and personalities of better-known lesser and greater daemons; can perform {\i lesser pentagram} ritual as if in possession of a scroll for the ritual.\par 
\tab 76-00\tab Detailed understanding of the nature of void and the daemonic dreamworlds; recognition of most known varieties and well-known identities of daemons; access to excellent references on daemon names.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Necromantic Lore (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The study and practice of the necromantic arts are outlawed in all civilized Old World societies. However, knowledge of legends and scholarship conc
erning necromancy may aid one in understanding and confronting the creatures and magickal effects associated with the necromantic arts.\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: Fearless vampire hunters and enemies of necromancy (e.g., cultists of Morr) often have exceptional knowledge in this area. Apply GM modifiers at your discretion.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Rating\tab Skill Guideline\tab }\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800 \tab 01-25\tab Familiar with common types of undead, i.e., skeletons, zombies, and ghosts.\par 
\tab 26-50\tab Familiar with exotic types of undead, and aware of spells used by Ranks 1 and 2 necromancers.\par 
\tab 51-75\tab Aware of Rank 3 and 4 necromantic spells.\par 
\tab 76-00\tab Good chance of knowing obscure (i.e., GM special) necromantic creatures and magicks.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Herb Lore (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Recognition of herbs, in their natural growing and dried forms, and in preparations. Knowledge of mundane and magickal properties, and procedures for gathering, preservation, and preparation. (See \ldblquote 
Herbs and Their Uses\rdblquote  from {\ul The Enemy Within}.)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Rating\tab Skill Guideline\tab }\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800 \tab 01-25\tab Familiar with common healing and magickal herbs.\par 
\tab 26-50\tab Extensive knowledge of local herbs; some awareness of common herbology of other regions and cultures.\par 
\tab 51-75\tab Extensive knowledge of herbs of various regions and cultures; some knowledge and recognition of poisons; chance of cultivating exotic herbs.\par 
\tab 76-00\tab Chance of recognizing the virtues of and improvising successfully with unknown herbs; skilled cultivation of exotic herbs.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Identify Sorcerous Artifact (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Even a layman can learn to recognize the features of the more common sorcerous artifacts and their workings. Some sorcerous artifacts (namely, scrolls and alchemicals) are highly specialized, and require specific skills. 
However, many popular sorcerous artifacts (i.e., magickal weapons, armor, and various rings and amulets) are well-known to experienced adventurers and scholars.\par 
\tab This skill will not permit one to understand or employ unique or uncommon magickal items. Knowledge of Arcane Languages or elaborate research may be necessary in some cases, or may provide additional useful information. I
f the item is guarded by password or destructive magickal protections, these may also be recognized. (See Sorcerous Artifacts, \ldblquote Protection\rdblquote , page ??.)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Rating\tab Skill Guideline\tab }\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800 \tab 01-25\tab Recognize some magickal Lesser Artifacts (Int test); know common powers and operating procedures for Lesser Artifacts; from study of inscription, know password, if not protected by code or in an unknown language.
\par 
\tab 26-50\tab Recognize most Lesser Artifacts (Int +30), and their functions and procedures; recognize basic magick
al principles of unfamiliar Lesser Artifacts from study of rune inscription; recognize the names and specialties of many contemporary enchanters (an important hint to the nature of the device when the creator\rquote 
s name is included in an inscription); recognize from inscription most common forms of destructive protection (Int +30).\par 
\tab 51-75\tab Recognize works of lesser contemporary, and well-known historical enchanters, and a smaller chance to deduce functions and procedures; recognize some Greater Artifacts (Int
 test); recognize Spirit and Daemonic enchantments from inscription, and familiar with basic principles.\par 
\tab 76-00\tab Chance to recognize even obscure or ancient items, and a smaller chance to deduce functions and procedures; access to extensive references on historical artifacts and their creators.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Alchemical Lore (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Alchemists and knowledgeable laymen may know the common names, functions, and properties of many alchemical reagents and compounds. However, identifying unlabeled alchemical compounds 
is somewhat more difficult, and reliable identification of rare or unique alchemical compounds is limited to experienced experts.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Rating\tab Skill Guideline\tab }\par 
\pard \s1\qj\tx720\tx1800 \tab 05-25\tab Familiarity with common reagents; some knowledge of extraordinary reagents. Knowledge of titles and properties of most petty and craft compounds commonly available to warriors and adventurers.\par 
\tab 30-50\tab Familiarity with properties of common, extraordinary, and true elemental reagents. Knowledge of titles and properties of petty, craft, master, sel
ect, and grand compounds; fair chance of recognizing unlabeled compounds (Int); some familiarity with works of famous ancient alchemists. May recognize a spoiled potion by examination (Int).\par 
\tab 55-75\tab Good chance of identifying unlabeled alchemical compounds (Int +30); small chance of knowing titles and properties of more obscure (i.e., GM special) alchemicals (Int -30). Good chance to recognize a spoiled potion by examination (Int +30).
\par 
\tab 80-00\tab Good chance of knowing and recognizing titles and properties of more obscure (i.e., GM special) alchemicals (Int).\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Spellcasting/Ritual Skills (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab There are specific spellcasting/ritual skills for each Mastery Level of each magickal discipline. 
Characters can only obtain these skills by entering the appropriate career, and by achieving the appropriate Mastery in that career. (See \ldblquote Sorcerous Careers\rdblquote {, Chapter 3.})\par 
\tab Sorcerors and Alchemists with the appropriate skill can cast spells and rituals.\par 
\tab The following Cast Spell/Ritual Skills are available through the careers listed in Chapter 3, pages ??{-??}:\par 
\pard \qj\tx720\tx1080 \tab \bullet \tab Hedgewizard\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Academic Apprentice\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Wizard (War Wizard, Imperial Institute of Battle Magicks), Mastery Levels 1-4\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Elementalist (College of Elemental Magicks), Mastery Levels 1-4\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Illusionist (College of Mental Magicks), Mastery Levels 1-4\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Daemonology, Mastery Levels 1-4\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Necromancy, Mastery Levels 1-4\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Alchemist, Ranks 1-3\par 
\par 
Inscribe Runes (Intelligence)\par 
\tab Runemasters must make special Inscriptions in order to cast their spells. This skill allows the Runemaster to inscribe runes on more and more arcane surfaces, eventually allowing him to inscribe them in thin air.\par 
\pard \qj\fi720 To inscribe a Rune, the Runemaster must have access to a stable surface (as above) and appropriate inscribing tools. 
Unlike standard Sorcerors, Runemasters may not simply paint their Runes and expect to be able to invoke them, though they are painted for purposes of instruction, drills, etc. Inscribing tools must be able to cut the surface being inscribed. A si
mple pair of metal, needle-like chisels similar in shape to lockpicks is sufficient for most engravings in wood, viscous surfaces, and softer stone, but a small hammer and chisel (which are often diamond-tipped) are required for harder stone and metal.
\par 
Once the surface and tools have been acquired, time must be spent arranging the Runes in their very specific configuration. 
The base time for inscription is 20 minutes per Rank of the Invocation, 10 minutes for Invocations Petty, 20 minutes for a lone Identity Rune. Add 20 minutes if a CornerRune is included. The final etching time may be further modified as follows: 
For etching in viscous surfaces (or, optionally, for very tough stone or metal) double the time. For etching in wood, halve the time. For painting or inking, as opposed to etching, reduce the time to a third of the base amount.\par 
The inscribing time will be increased if more care is paid to its quality; see \ldblquote Terms and Rules\rdblquote , Chapter 2.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
Enchant Lesser Artifact: Sorcerors with this skill and {Rune Craft} can create Lesser Artifacts. See Chapter {5}, Magickal Artifacts, \ldblquote Enchantments\rdblquote , page ??.\par 
\par 
Enchant Greater Artifact: Sorcerors with this skill and {Rune Craft} can create Greater Artifacts. See Chapter {5}, Magickal Artifacts, \ldblquote Enchantments\rdblquote , page ??.\par 
\par 
Enchant Lesser Spirit Artifact: Sorcerors with this skill, Enchant Lesser Artifact or Enchant Greater Artifact, and {Rune Craft} can create Lesser Spirit Artifacts. See Chapter {5,} Magickal Artifacts, \ldblquote Enchantments\rdblquote , page ??.\par 
\par 
Enchant Greater Spirit Artifact: Sorcerors with this skill, Enchant Lesser Artifact or Enchant Greater Artifact, and {Rune Craft} can create Greater Spirit Artifacts. See Chapter {5}, Magickal Artifacts, \ldblquote Enchantments\rdblquote , page ??.\par 
\par 
Enchant Daemon Artifact: Sorcerors with this skill, Enchant Lesser Artifact or Enchant Greater Artifact, and {Rune Craft} can create Daemon Artifacts. See Chapter {5}, Magickal Artifacts, \ldblquote Enchantments\rdblquote , page ??.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Prepare Compound Skills (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab There are specific Prepare Compound skills for each Alchemist Mastery Level. Characters can only obtain these skills by entering the appropriate career, and by achieving the appropriate Mastery in that career. (See 
\ldblquote Alchemist Careers\rdblquote {, Chapter 3.})\par 
\tab The following Prepare Compound Skills are available through the careers listed in Chapter 3, page ??:\par 
\tab \bullet  Prepare Petty Compound\par 
\tab \bullet  Prepare Craft Compound\par 
\tab \bullet  Prepare Master Compound\par 
\tab \bullet  Prepare Select Compound\par 
\tab \bullet  Prepare Grand Compound\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Prepare Common Reagents (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Beings with this skill can concentrate and refine the magickal properties of various animal, monstrous, herbal, and elemental 
substances, producing common reagents used in various spell and ritual castings, enchantments, and alchemical compounds.\par 
\tab Preparation of common reagents is a routine and reliable process. Therefore, under normal circumstances, beings with the Prepare Common Reagent skill are presumed to have an adequate supply of common reagents at all times.\par 
\tab GM Guidelines: Characters may be separated from their supplies of common reagents by various disasters. Given access to a lab and appropriate raw materials, one me
asure of a common reagent can be prepared in a minimum of ten minutes with a successful skill test. 
For each additional ten minutes dedicated to cautious and deliberate checking and observation during preparation, the skill test receives a +10 point bonus. A roll of 96-00 is always a failure, regardless of bonuses.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Prepare Extraordinary Reagents (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Beings with this skill can concentrate and refine the magickal properties of various animal, monstrous, herbal, and elemental substances, produci
ng extraordinary reagents used in various spell and ritual castings, enchantments, and alchemical compounds.\par 
\tab Preparation of extraordinary reagents is a involved, time-consuming, and unreliable process. 
Given access to a lab and appropriate raw materials, one measure of an extraordinary reagent can be prepared in a minimum of one hour with a successful skill test. 
For each additional hour dedicated to cautious and deliberate checking and observation during preparation, the skill test receives a +10 point bonus. A roll of 96-00 is always a failure, regardless of bonuses.\par 
\tab See \ldblquote Table of Extraordinary and True Elemental Reagents\rdblquote , page ??.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Prepare True Elemental Reagents (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Beings with this skill can concentrate and refine the magickal properties of elemental substances, producing true elemental reagents used in various spell and ritual castings, enchantments, and alchemical compounds.\par 
\tab Preparation of true elemental reagents is exceptionally difficult and doubtful. Given access to a lab and ap
propriate raw materials, one measure of a true elemental reagent can be prepared in a minimum of 12 hours with a successful skill test at a penalty of -30 points. 
For each additional 12 hours dedicated to cautious and deliberate checking and observation during preparation, the skill test receives a +10 point bonus. A roll of 96-00 is always a failure, regardless of bonuses.\par 
\tab See \ldblquote Table of Extraordinary and True Elemental Reagents\rdblquote ,{ page ??.}\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Manufacture Gas Bombs (Intelligence)\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Characters with this skill can prepare gas bombs which disperse clouds of poison when they shatter. Any poison can be used in a gas bomb. 10 doses of a poison are necessary to manufacture a single gas bomb.\par 
\tab Gas bombs function exactly like explosive bombs (see {\ul WFRP}, page 127), except that instead of causing missile damage, creatures within 4 yards of the bomb\rquote 
s impact must test against Toughness x 10 or suffer the effects of one dose of the gas bomb\rquote s poison. (Creatures which are not normally affected by the gas bomb\rquote s poison need not test, and are not affected.)\par 
\pard \qj \tab One gas bomb can be manufactured in a minimum of 1 hour with a successful skill test. For each additional hour dedicated to cautious and deliberate checking and observation during manufacture, the skill test receives a +10 point bonus. 
A roll of 96-00 is always a failure, regardless of bonuses. A failed skill test during manufacture indicates that the gas bomb has exploded prematurely, and the manufacturer must test against Toughness x 10 or suffer the effects of two
 doses of the gas bomb\rquote s poison.\par 
\pard \qj {\v \par 
[Warning: Next two skills don't have the necessary accompanying rules text prepared in other parts of the manuscript.]\par 
\par 
}{\v\fs28 Spawn Homunculi (Intelligence)\par 
}{\v \tab Characters with this skill can use alchemical procedures to create artificial creatures from reproductive tissues.\par 
\par 
[[Neat, but expendable. Homunculi could include anything from miniature humanoid robots to big golems or artificial creatures under an alchemist's control. I\rquote m not sure what I want to do here; most likely I\rquote l
l leave it open-ended, with GM guidelines, like Greater Artifacts.]]\par 
\par 
}{\v\fs28 Prepare Great Works (Intelligence)\par 
}{\v \tab [[Neat, but expendable; most likely open-ended, with GM guidelines, like Greater Artifacts.]]\par 
}}