{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\qj \b\f16 \sbasedon0\snext1 Section heading;}{\s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext2 Chapter Heading;}}{\info}\widowctrl\ftnbj\pgnstart0\makebackup\fracwidth {\*\nextfile perv.gov:Spell Summaries}\sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere 
{\footer \pard\plain \s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 Realms of Sorcery\tab Spell Lists Preface\tab Page \chpgn \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 Chapter 4\: Spell Descriptions}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
{\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s1\qj \b\f16 Listings Format}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\tab Runes: Runes which must be engraved upon the wizard}\rquote {s focus in order to cast the spell or ritual. Combined with the }\ldblquote {I Wizard}\rdblquote { runes on the focus, the }
casting reagents, and the mystical state created in the caster by spoken phrases{ and silent meditations upon the essences and aethyrs represented by the runes, completes the magickal sentence which triggers the unleashing of the desired magical effect.
\par 
}\pard \qj {\tab Spell/Ritual Name: Spell or ritual title. Often a rough translation of the rune significations.} If the spell might have
 side effects, or carries a risk of Casting Injury, or may be used in one or more forms, this will be indicated with the following symbols:\par 
\pard \qj\li1440 {\f13 l}\tab May be used in a Circle\par 
{\f13 s}\tab May be used in a Triangle\par 
{\f13 n}\tab May be used in a Square\par 
{\f13 '}\tab Risk of Casting Injury\par 
{\f13 9}\tab Risk of Side Effects{\par 
}\pard \qj {\tab Discipline/Level: Type of magick discipline casting and mastery level of the spell/ritual.\par 
\tab Preparation: Rounds required to prepare for ritual castings. Typically 1d6+3 rounds.\par 
\tab Magick Points: Magick point cost for casting.\par 
\tab Range: Maximum distance from caster that spell effect can be delivered. Typically a number of yards equal to the character}\rquote {s Base Magick Points Score (indicated as }\ldblquote {BMP y}ar{ds}\rdblquote {).\par 
\tab Area of Effect: Maximum area affected by casting. In some cases defined as an area or volume of space; in others defined as the subject or target that may be affected.\par 
\tab Reagents: All spells and rituals require reagents. Casters are assumed to have ample supplies of Common Reagents. Extraordinary and True Elemen
tal Reagents are marked with an asterisk (*). Supplies and expenditures of Extraordinary and True Elemental must be recorded. (See Chapter 8, }\ldblquote {Alchemical Reagents}\rdblquote {, page ??.)\par 
\tab Resistance: Conditions of Magickal Resistance Test, if allowed for the casting.} Resistance given against \ldblquote 1-10\ldblquote  stats (e.g. Toughness) are made against ten time sthat stat unless specificed otherwise.\par 
\tab CornerRune (Runemaster listings only): The CornerRune used to increase an Inscription\rquote s effectiveness.{\par 
\tab Rationale: Pseudo-technical gobbledygook explaining basic principles of the casting}\rquote {s effect. Charming fantasy color, and a guideline for player and GM interpretations of the casting and its effects.\par 
\tab Magick Effects: What the spell or casting does, in game and roleplaying terms.} Spells which are duplicates from another specialty, or the Battle lists, will have a one or two line summary of the effects
; refer to the original spell listing for details.{\par 
\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\qj \b\f16 {Spell Commentaries\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\tab 
At the end of the castings lists for each discipline, a section of spell commentaries offers additional background information and interpretation guidelines for various spells and rituals. These commentaries fall into three categories:\par 
\tab Background: Known history of the spell or ritual.\par 
\tab Notes: Guidelines for interpreting the casting}\rquote {s magical effects.\par 
\tab Variants: Similar castings that might be encountered in a Warhammer campaign, at the GM}\rquote {s discretion.\par 
\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s1\qj \b\f16 {Spell Variants}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\tab 
For some spells we suggest some variants of the listed spells that might be encountered in some WFRP campaigns. Caution: we have not tested these variants in play. We may add them to the official lists at some future date, but in the meantime, use your ju
dgment about whether they belong in your campaign. These are just suggestions to encourage creative experimentation on your part. Even if you never introduce any variants to your campaign, Realm of Sorcerous Magick provides plenty of
 magick spells and rituals for a nifty fantasy roleplaying campaign.\par 
\tab 
NPC Use: The GM may allow NPCs to use these variants. Hedgewizards with eccentric masters or academic sorcerors of foreign or primitive cultures might be expected to have different spells and rituals from those the player characters have learned. The GM s
hould adapt restrictions on the castings (Magick Point cost, Range, Magick Effects, etc.) to suit his fancy.\par 
\tab PC Use: If the GM wishes to permit use of variants to player characters, full spell descriptions must be prepared by the players and/or the GM, and approved for use by the GM. (See below under }\ldblquote {
Adding New Spells and Rituals to Your Campaign}\rdblquote {.) Warning: Beware of potential abuses of new and untested spells. Be prepared to alter or delete any variants which produce excessively powerful magickal effects for relatively low cost. (See }
\ldblquote {Staging Magick}\rdblquote {, page ??, for hints on controlling inflation of magickal powers in your campaign.)\par 
\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\qj \b\f16 {Adding New Spells and Rituals to Your Campaign\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\tab These
 lists are by no means a complete listing of all the spells and rituals in the Warhammer World. Nosirree. There are jillions of sorcerous spells and rituals out there, just waiting to be discovered by intrepid adventurers and diligent researchers. These ar
e just the castings most likely to be learned by wizards in the Old World, either because they are easy and reliable, or really useful, or thought by the magickal guilds and academies to be essential examples of the spellcasting art.\par 
\tab We are going to publish lots and lots of new spells every chance we get, partly because you want them, and partly because we like to whip them up. Watch for future WFRP supplements and articles in White Dwarf. We also suspect you}\rquote {
re going to make up your own spells and rituals. We love the idea. We couldn}\rquote {t stop you if we tried.\par 
\tab Here are some suggestions for avoiding the kinds of trouble that introducing homemade spells and rituals can produce in your campaign.\par 
\tab 1. Beware the power-mad rules chiseling impulse. Even nice players sometimes wish they had a cheap }\ldblquote {Enemies Explode}\rdblquote {
 spell that always works and kills every nasty thing for miles around. When introducing a new spell, make sure it is neither cheaper nor more effective than any other spell currently allowed in your campaign} at that mastery level{.\par 
\tab 
2. Encourage new spells and rituals which satisfy roleplaying needs more than wargaming needs. In general, anytime a player wants a spell that is less powerful and more expensive than currently available spells, but is somehow essential to his sense o
f his character}\rquote {s role as a spellcaster, it}\rquote {s probably a safe bet. For example, if a player wants a spell that links him with an animal familiar (}\ldblquote {Oh, c}\rquote {mon...pleeease? }{\b All}{ wizards have familiars...}
\rdblquote {), but the spell effects are no more powerful than a modest petty spell, try to find a way to permit him a little toad guy to stick in his pocket and talk to on long wilderness campfire watches.\par 
}}