{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext1 Chapter Heading;}{\s2\qj \b\f16 \sbasedon0\snext2 Section Heading;}{\s3\qj \f16 \sbasedon0\snext3 Subsection Heading;}}{\info}\widowctrl\ftnbj\pgnstart0\fracwidth \sectd 
\sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain \s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 Realms of Sorcery\tab Staging Magick\tab Page {\chpgn }\par 
}\pard\plain \s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 Chapter 7\: {Staging }{Magick}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 Keeping Magick Magickal\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The {magick} we\rquote ve talked about in the previous {6} chapters{:} spells, rituals, potions, and all{,} is {magick} from the perspective of the player character, sure enough, but a lot of the \ldblquote {magic}
\rdblquote  of {magick} (the mystery and wonderful surprise of {magick}) is gone for most players, since if they read the rules and spell descriptions, none of this {magick} is going to surprise them very much when they encounter it. \par 
\tab Actually, that\rquote s good, in a way, because playing in a game where a piece of your personality can get killed isn\rquote t much fun if you don\rquote t know the rules, and don\rquote 
t have a pretty good idea of the kinds of abilities you have and the dangers your character might face.{ }But a big part of the fantasy atmosphere in fantasy roleplaying comes from {magick}, and if all the {magick}
 in your campaign comes straight out of this book, your campaign isn\rquote t going to give you and your players the kind of satisfaction you get from the {magick}al flavor in the best fantasy books, films, and art.\par 
\tab So at least some of your {magick} shouldn\rquote t follow the rules; at least, your players shouldn\rquote t be able to predict what will happen every time they encounter {magick}.\par 
\tab This book covers a fraction of the disciplines and practices of Old World sorcery{:} only one of the many sources of {magick} in the Warhammer World.{ }The companion volume, {\ul Divine }{\ul Magick}, covers a second source of {magick}
: the better-known divine and lesser spirit powers of the Old World.{ }If you want to present your players with unpredictable, mysterious, marvelous {magick} in a Warhammer campaign, here are a number suggestions.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Foreign, Obscure, or Unknown Old World Sorceries\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The spells, rituals, and {magick}al items in this volume are primarily those commonly practiced in the Empire.{ }Other Old World cultures and {magick} colleges have many unique {magick}
 spells, rituals, and practices, and many distinctive variations on common Imperial sorcerous practices.{ }For example, academic {magick} in Kislev has been heavily influenced by Oriental{-style}
 spells and rituals brought by the Ungol nomads, whose empire once stretched across the Steppes to Far Cathay and Tetsubo.{\v  (?).}{\v  }{\v (GMs should run right out and buy Tetsubo and stick lots of weird Oriental }{\v magick}{\v 
s into a Kislevan campaign.)}{ }A further example is the prohibition against fire {magick}s in heavily-urbanized Tilea, the consequence of numerous disastrous accidental and malevolent urban fires, occasionally leveling whole cities.{ }
As a result, Tilean War Colleges specialize in numerous variants of the {\i painball} Battle spell, rather than the fire-based Battle spells favored by the Imperial War College.\par 
\tab There are also numerous spells, rituals, and devices unknown to the Academic Colleges and Guilds.{ }Many are proprietary practices, developed by an individual wizards, and available only 
if you can afford the steep prices they charge for their exclusive services.{ }Other {magick}s have been neglected, either because they are too risky, or {too }peculiar, or because they\rquote ve been outlawed for centuries.{ }Necromancy and {Daemon}
ology, for example, have been practiced in secret for centuries, and many spells, rituals, and devices have been lost when their inventors has passed away or fallen prey to their own researches.{ }Further, there are many experimental and oddball {magick}
al practices that are duly reco
rded in the journals and logs of the colleges and guilds, but which, because of their doubtful reliability or provenance, or because of the daunting mischances attending the death and dismemberment of their authors, seldom come to light without the diligen
t and persistent scholarly research of eager-beaver graduate students and charter-jumpers.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Obscure and Minor Divine }{Magick}{s\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The gods move in mysterious ways.{ }For every well-known, canonical cult prayer, there are several dozen obscure, peculiar, and idi
osyncratic special prayers, some only granted once to a single historical cultist, others granted only to mysterious, secret sub-cults unknown to the majority of main cult worshippers and clerics.{ }
For example, there are the Defenders of Mercy, a secret cub-cult of Shallya which takes a peculiarly narrow interpretation of the strictures against taking a life, and which {has}
 been granted a number of prayers which cause excruciating agony, occasionally including mental derangement, without endangering a victim\rquote s life.{ }(The Defenders of Mercy have accepted Shallya\rquote 
s mission to pursue and punish those who do harm to Shallya\rquote s healing servants; this sub-cult is probably the enforcement vehicle supporting the superstition that those who harm a Shallya cleric may fall under a terrible curse.)\par 
\tab There are also many obscure minor divine spirits, most associated with creatures, plants, and sites sacred to the Earth Mother.{ }Even the weakest of these beings have considerable personal {magick}al power, and often have unique {magick}al abilities
 duplicated nowhere{ else} in Old World sorcery or divine {magick}.{ }
For example, consider the Spirit of the Unicorn Grove, fabled to be a bubbling fountain that heals all wounds, physical and mental, of the virgin immersed there, but which turns the unchaste into tiny water-skaters skimming about on the surface of the pool
. \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Magick}{al Beings\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Many creatures in the WFRP Bestiary have {magick}al powers.{ }Whenever possible, these powers are described in terms of Sorcerous or Divine {magick}al abilities, but these beings ought also to have special {magick}
al abilities not limited to those specific game {magick}al effects.{ }See {\ul White Dwarfs}, campaign and adventure supplements, and other Warhammer products for examples of special {magick}al abilities.{ }For example, {t}
he Old Slann are perfect sources for unusual {magick}al artifacts.{ }Old Slann {magick}al devices should generally be an incomprehensible blend of {magick}
 and technology, which, of course, to a wizard will seem to be simply an extremely bizarre and obscure form of sorcery.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {High Elves, Dark Elves, and Imperial Dwarves\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Lost arts of the off-stage races.{ }
Their stuff is lying around in tunnels and ruins, available from Sea Elf traders, and carried around in the Old World by descendants (or by necromantically-sustained ancients) from the occupations in the past centuries.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Elemental and }{Daemon}{ic }{Magick}{s\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Elemental and daemonic beings have {magick} points and {magick}al abilities beyond the wildest dreams of Old World sorcerors.{ }All you have to do to dump this rich and ruleless variety of {magick}
 into your campaign is let the campaign villains summon up a couple of daemons who successfully resist their summoners\rquote  control and go for a stroll.{ }It happens all the time{;} I bet they have daemon drills (instead of fire drills) at {magick}
 colleges on a regular basis, and a volunteer daemon-fighting department that is Johnny-on-the-spot.\par 
\tab I bet there are also scads of rude daemons running around on the planet, let loose by careless sorcerors over the centuries.{ }Not to mention the zillions of oddball {magick}s the Chaos daemons themselves have.{ }And, for that matter{\'c9}\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Chaos\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Is Chaos {magick} weird? Do pigs like truffles?\par 
\tab Chaos {magick} is the GM\rquote s blank check.{ }Wanna surprise your players with some {magick} stuff they don't expect?{ }Trot out some Chaos sorcerors, or some Chaos daemons on a long leash.{ }Hail of jellyfish?{ }
A cloud of whipped cream where PC spells automatically backfire?{ }No problem.{ }Let \rquote er rip.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Villains\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Opponents ought to have lots of funny {magick}s the players have never seen.{ }Monstrous races like the goblinoids, lizardmen, fimir, etc. have their own special sorceries and cult {magick}
s, all of it a big surprise to the PCs.{ }We publish plenty of examples of off-brand monster {magick}s (see, for example, the goblin cult {magick}s in {\ul Divine }{\ul Magick}), but your player{s}
 can get hold of that stuff and read it, spoiling all your fun.{ }No reason why your orcs can\rquote t have some special {magick}s that don\rquote t show up in our nifty products.\par 
\tab And the bad guy sorcerors and priests the PCs encounter are ge{nerally an anti}social lot.{ }They rarely learned the same spells that decent folk like PCs learn; they have their own neat spells that don't work quite the way the PCs expected them to.{
 }Surprise!\par 
{\par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {The Role of }{Magick}{ in the Warhammer Setting\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab One of the distinctive charms of first edition Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay was the limited role that sorcerors and divine spellcasters played in the campaign.{ }
This encouraged the development of characters with a variety of career backgrounds, giving a distinctive flavor to Warhammer fantasy roleplaying.\par 
\tab Is {\ul Realms of Sorcery}, with its abundant riches of spells, rituals, alchemical compounds, and other {magick} effects, going to weaken that distinctive scarce-{magick} feel of the Warhammer campaign?\par 
\tab For beginning and low-experience player characters, the increase in {magick} available is very modest.{ }
Sorcerors are only slightly more common as beginning characters than with first edition WFRP, and the spells and rituals available for them are in some ways more restricted than the original spells.{ }
For example, rituals which require 1d6+3 rounds to prepare are somewhat less handy than the old instant spell castings.{ }The most distinctive change is the availability of alchemical compounds for sale.{ }This makes modest {magick}
 available, most significantly to non-spellcasting characters; however, the compounds are expensive and scarce, and finally it is up to the GM to decide how commonly available they are, and how much cash he lets slip into the hands of player characters.
\par 
\tab At moder
ate- and high-experience levels, too, the spells and rituals are in most cases actually less powerful than the first edition spells; nonetheless, the addition of more commonly available summoned elementals and daemons represents a significant increase in t
he powers of sorcerous spellcasters.{ }Initially these increased powers will only be available to the GM for NPC allies and villains, and as such will be welcome tools for the GM.{ }
However, when PCs gain access to these powers, they become more and more unpredictable in their use of their {magick}, and more difficult for GMs to present adventure challenges game-balanced against their abilities.\par 
\tab We have come to accept the notion that the more complex, detailed{,} and{ therefore} interesting{,} the roleplaying {magick} design, the more difficult the gamemastering and roleplaying task in managing the impact of that {magick}
 on the campaign setting.{ }We believe you want complex, detailed, and interesting {magick}, and that gamemasters and players are willing to struggle with the task of managing it.{ }The key principles in managing powerful {magick}
 we have discovered are as follows:\par 
\tab 1.{ }Keep character advancement slow and deliberate.{ }Resist your players\rquote  natural lust for high-level {magick} powers.{ }Get to know the lower-level {magick}s intimately before you graduate to more complex, powerful {magick}.{ }
Make each modest advance significant; don\rquote t rely on sudden bursts of increased character power for cheap thrills.{ }Fortunately, WFRP gamers seem to prefer this style of roleplaying, and have selected WFRP specifically because it doesn\rquote 
t encourage the rapid accumulation of player character wealth, {magick}al widgets, and powerful abilities.\par 
\tab 2.{ }Review and adapt standard game materials to your own gaming style.{ }After reading {\ul Realms of Sorcery}, or after testing its features at low-experience levels in your campaign, you may decide to restrict its use in your campaign.{ }
A few obvious strategies are suggested:\par 
\tab \bullet { }{\ul The gamemaster prohibits daemonologists and necromancers as player characters}.{ }This greatly reduces the variety of {magick} available to player characters, and limits the use of these complex and potentially powerful {magick}
 disciplines to your NPC villains.\par 
\tab \bullet { }{\ul The }{\ul Magick}{\ul  Guilds prohibit the use of}{\ul ,}{\ul  or alter the mastery levels required for}{\ul ,}{\ul  various }{\ul magick}{\ul al practices}.{ }
The Guilds have the power to regulate the practice of sorcery and alchemy within their jurisdictions.{ }With this rationale, the GM can delete or alter the level of various spells, rituals, alchemical formulae, and other {magick}al powers.{ }
For example, one GM uncomfortable with the widespread practice of summoning elementals and daemons might shift all summoning rituals up one level, while another GM with reservations about thaumaturgic circles, triangles, and squares might announce that the
 Guilds had declared a temporary (i.e., indefinite) moratorium on the use of such rituals in consequence of recent research showing that such practices weaken the void membrane and encourage the penetration of daemonic forces into the Material Realm.
\par 
\tab 3.{ }Be patient.{ }Expect problems.{ }Count on the good will of GM and players to resolve conflicts.{ }There are no perfect roleplaying systems, there will be no perfect roleplaying systems, and the least perfect of all roleplaying systems are {
magick} systems, simply because of the wonderful and mysterious fantastic phenomena they attempt to portray.{ }Don\rquote t get excited when problems arise in the campaign with {magick} use.{ }
Solicit suggestions from players, GMs, but understand it is finally your responsibility to resolve issues in the best interests of the players, the campaign, and the GM\rquote s peace of mind.{ }
Offer suggestions to the GM, players, but remember it is finally your responsibility to support and appreciate your GM\rquote s labors in running this imaginary universe for your amusement.\par 
{\par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {Judging Tasks Requested of Summoned Beings\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab What {\b will} a summoned being do?{ }What {\b can} an summoned being do?{ }Desperate players will constantly try out new uses of summoned beings for problem solving.{ }In resolving such questions
, the GM is encouraged to prohibit uses of summoned beings which seem to focus on tricky or out-of-character extensions of the rules, but to encourage uses which extend or develop the dramatic flavor of summoned beings.\par 
\tab For example, a daemonologist and an elementalist want to scout the forest ahead of the adventuring group.{ }They imagine the equivalent of an intelligent robot reconnaissance drone.{ }
One suggests summoning an imp, then summoning a least elemental of air in eagle form to fly the imp ahead then return to make a scouting report.\par 
\tab This is just a typical judging nightmare for the GM.{ }How many encumbrance points is an imp worth?{ }(It\rquote s not in these rules, pal, don\rquote t bother looking.){ }And would a least elemental submit to carrying an imp around?{ }
And would an imp be willing to dangle beneath a least elemental as it zooms through the forest?{ }And how much can an imp steer the elemental if it wishes to check out some interesting feature?\par 
\tab Here\rquote s a scheme for handling these questions.\par 
\tab First, visualize the task requested of the summoned being.{ }Imagine the details of how the task\rquote s performance would appear from the point of view of the summoned being.{ }
In this case, the summoned eagle would likely have some trouble flying and maneuvering with a heavy burden, particularly a wiggling, frightened one, and worst of all would be the return landing.{ }From the imp\rquote 
s point of view, dangling in the talons of a summoned eagle might not seem very pleasant, particularly if the imp suspected the eagle would cheerfully drop him if things got inconvenient.\par 
\tab Next, determine if the summon{ed be}ing is willing to perform the task.{ }A good first step is to consider the Service tests made for both the imp and elemental eagle when presented the proposed task.{ }
If either is hesitant or unwilling, the task will not be successfully completed.\par 
\tab Then, determine whether the task is practical.{ }If the imp and elemental have agreed to perform the task, the GM has to decide how heavy and clumsy a burden the imp would be, and whether the imp c
ould do any useful scouting while dangling in the eagle\rquote s talons as it soars above the trees and glides through their branches.\par 
\tab Finally, determine whether the task is appropriate for the Warhammer campaign setting.{ }
At last, even if you decide the summonings are willing and that the task is practical, consider whether it is the sort of thing that ought to happen in Warhammer World.{ }
Here you should trust your instincts more than your reason, because it is impossible during the middle of a play session to anticipate all the possible ramifications your ruling might have for the future of your campaign.{ }If it {\ldblquote }
just doesn't seem right somehow{\rdblquote ,} you probably shouldn\rquote t allow it.{ }
In this case, you just may feel that Warhammer elementals and daemons are so fundamentally different in nature and personality that they just couldn't imagine cooperating, and certainly wouldn\rquote 
t trust one another, or you may advise your players that the idea of an elementalist asking an elemental summoning to carry a disgusting, unnatural daemonic fiend from the Void is just instinctively offensive to an elementalist\rquote 
s sense of proper conduct.\par 
\tab Once having decided the task is inappropriate, you need to come up with a good excuse to deny your player his request.{ }The best excuse is that the summoning isn\rquote 
t willing to perform the task, either because of its own personal feelings, or, better yet, because the summoning\rquote s superiors (more powerful elementals or daemons) don\rquote t like their subjects to do such things.{ }At this point it\rquote 
s best to avoid the excuse that the task isn\rquote 
t possible, since players will often energetically argue issues of what is possible, while it is difficult to argue issues of what the summoning is willing to do, since the motivations of the summoning are completely within the control of the GM, and right
fully kept secret from the player.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {Summoned Beings as NPCs Roleplayed by the GM\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Elemental Beings\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Summoned elementals beings may be imagined as idealized representations of natural creatures and forces.{ }Just as Walt Disney idealizes Bambi as the perfect fawn{:} shy, timid, and adorable{,}
 and as Rudyard Kipling idealizes the wolf as noble, civilized, and courageous, the GM may idealize the various creatures and natural forces represented by summoned elemental beings.{ }
Images of animals and personified natural forces can be borrowed from cartoons, folklore, and fable.\par 
\tab Visualize the summoned elemental for yourself and your players.{ }Exploit the cinematic sense of wonder as a summoned elemental forms out of the elements of its domain into an idealized creature or manifestation of a natural force. For example: 
\par 
\tab GM:{ }\ldblquote As Jaeger completes the last phrases and gestures of the ritual, the surface of the pool begins to stir, swirling gently as in a whirlpool, then suddenly bulging to form a bulbous, transparent, octopus-like head of clear water.{ }
Suddenly the surface of the pool is alive with clear, writhing tentacles, each a sinuous tube of water, rising and twisting above the surface of the water.{ }Jaeger gestures with an open hand toward the watery form, bidding to establish his control.{ }
A watery tentacle reaches for Jaeger abruptly, halts, then extends tentatively and coils docilely in the palm of Jaeger's outstretched hand.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Characterize through exaggerated personality traits and gestures.{ }Give each summoned elemental a name and a few descriptive key words.{ }The caster always gets the same elemental spirit for a given form, so long as it is not destroyed.{ }
An elemental ruler sends a spirit of his choosing, and may, at the GM\rquote s discretion, choose to send a new spirit.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Daemonic Beings\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Daemonic beings may be idealized as dream and nightmare fantasies, exaggerations of the most bizarre human traits and behaviors.{ }
All daemons are either clearly insane or at least uncomfortable eccentric by human standards, with annoying or terrifying quirks of personality and behavior.\par 
\tab One strategy is to characterize each daemon as a personification of a single exaggerated eccentric or insane trait or behavior.{ }For example, an imp may be extremel
y hyperactive and restless, compulsively fidgeting, twitching, and disturbing his surroundings, while a daemon creature may be the physical embodiment of most ferocious, violent homicidal bloodlusts.\par 
\pard \qj \tab With independent daemons, the more intelligent the daemon, the more sophisticated and skillfully-deceitful it may be.{ }As such, a powerful daemon may maintain the earnest pretense of a noble saint and faithful servant{\'c9}
 right up to the moment when it tries to slit you open or suck out your soul.{ }On the other hand, powerful daemons of the Four Powers (Khorne, {Slaanesh}
, Nurgle, and Tzeentch) are elaborated in the Realm of Chaos volumes, which should serve amply as guides to your portrayal of these beings.\par 
}