{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext1 Chapter Heading;}{\s2\qj \b\f16 \sbasedon0\snext2 Section Heading;}{\s3\qj \f16 \sbasedon2\snext3 Subsection Heading;}{\s4\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext4 GM Notes;}}{\info}\widowctrl\ftnbj\pgnstart0\fracwidth 
{\*\nextfile perv.gov:Daemons}\sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain \s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 Realms of Sorcery\tab Forms and Summonings\tab Page \chpgn \par 
}\pard\plain \s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 Chapter 6\: Summoning and Undead}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {Thaumaturgic Forms}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Thaumaturgic Forms (three-dimensional structures of magickal force, surfaces along which the Void boundary is partially exposed in the Material Universe) may be created by sorcerous rituals. As forms are created, s
pell and ritual magick effects may be stored in them. Thereafter forms release their stored spell or ritual magick effects when triggered deliberately by a caster or inadvertently by beings which enter the form{\rquote }
s area of effect. There are four basic types of thaumaturgic forms:\par 
\tab \bullet  Circle: stores spell and ritual effects which are automatically triggered when any living being with a spirit of significant aethyrial energy (any being with 1 or more BMP) contacts the Circle{\rquote }s area of effect.\par 
\tab \bullet  Triangle: stores defensive versions of spells and rituals which cancel the effects of spell and ritual castings when they contact the area of the Triangle{\rquote }s effect.\par 
\tab \bullet  Square: stores spells and ritual effects as does the Circle, but permits the form\rquote s creator to permit passage through the Square\rquote s area of effect without triggering the stored spell or ritual effects.\par 
\tab \bullet  Pentagram: creates magickal barriers which confine elemental or daemonic beings within their area of effect, and prohibit the projection of material or magi
ckal attacks beyond the limits of the pentagram, so long as the caster is able to maintain the magickal barriers against the will of the elemental or daemonic creature confined within the pentagram. Pentagrams can also protect beings within their area of e
ffect from elementals and daemons outside the pentagram.\par 
\tab In addition, Runemasters have access to three additional thaumaturgic forms:\par 
\tab \bullet  Cage: store spell and ritual effects which are automatically triggered when a spirit inside the area of effect attempts to leave. Entering the Cage will not trigger the spells stored in it, but a creature may not enter and then safely leave.
 No spirit may leave the cage until all spells have been expended.\par 
\tab \bullet  Guard: stores spell and ritual effects when an object or door is touched, opened, or otherwise disturbed.\par 
\tab \bullet  Ward: stores spell and ritual effects as does a Square, but with a more restricted area of effect.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Creating Thaumaturgic Forms\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Creating a thaumaturgic form requires three steps:\par 
\tab 1. inscribing the form pattern,\par 
\tab 2. inscribing the rune inscription upon the form pattern, and\par 
\tab 3. casting the form ritual, at which time spells or rituals are stored in the form and the form is activated by the completion of the form ritual.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Form Patterns\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
First a sorceror must inscribe the form pattern on a flat, solid surface parallel to the surface of the earth. A form pattern is a circle, triangle, square, or pentagram (according to the appropriate form ritual). The lines of the form pattern may be of a
ny width, so long as the necessary runes may be inscribed upon the lines, and may be inscribed in any fashion (i.e., engraved, painted, written with a stylus, etc.).\par 
\tab 
Typically a form pattern designed to be concealed from observers (for example, a defensive ward or boobytrap) will be inscribed as thinly as possible, and in the most unobtrusive manner. For example, on a stone floor in a dark passageway, a form pattern m
ight be inscribed in dark ink, and only a half-inch wide.\par 
\tab On the other hand, a form pattern designed to be noticed by observers (e.g., a ward intended to discourage intruders) might be inscribed as an inch or two wide line painted or inlaid in bright, eye-catching colors.\par 
\tab Form patterns may not be inscribed on moving objects like wagons, boat decks, flying carpets, or dragons.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Rune Inscriptions\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
Next the necessary rune inscriptions must be made upon the surface of the lines of the form pattern. Rune inscriptions must include a group of runes associated with the specific form ritual to be cast and the runes of any spells or rituals to be cast upon
 the active form.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Activating the Form\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Once the runes have b
een inscribed upon the form pattern, the form is activated by the casting of the appropriate form ritual. During the casting of the Form ritual, any spell or ritual effects to be stored in the form must be cast before the Form ritual is completed, and the 
form activated. During the casting of the form ritual, other casters may cast spells into the form, not just the form{\rquote }s creator. No further spell or ritual effects may be stored in the form after the form has been activated.\par 
\tab Each type of form is activated by its own specific form ritual (i.e., {\i lesser circle} ritual, {\i greater square} { }
ritual). Sorcerors learn and cast form rituals just as they learn and cast other spells and rituals. If the magick effects stored within a form have been exhausted, or if the duration of the form ritual effect has ended, the form is no longer activated.
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Triggering Stored Magick Effects of Thaumaturgic Forms}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The stored spell and ritual effects of Circle and Square thaumaturgic forms are automatically triggered when any living bein
g with a spirit of significant aethyrial energy comes in contact with the area of effect of the Circle or Square. (Exception: The creator of a Square will not trigger it.)\par 
\tab The stored reverse spell and ritual effects of Triangle thaumaturgic forms are triggered when the magick effects of a corresponding spell or ritual comes in contact with the area of effect of the Triangle.\par 
\tab Magick effects are not stored in Pentagram thaumaturgic forms.\par 
\tab Any magick effect stored in a Circle or Square may be selectively activated when the form caster\rquote s touches his focus to the form pattern. For example, a Winddeflection stored in a Circle can be triggered by the touch of the caster\rquote 
s focus. No more than one spell can be triggered per round by this method.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Area of Effect for Spells and Rituals Stored in Forms\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Regardless of the area of effect stated for spells and rituals cast into a form, such spells and rituals, when triggered from storage in a form, shall affect only the area of effect of that thaumaturgic form, and shall
 affect the entire area of effect of that thaumaturgic form.\par 
\tab For example, the {\i v}{\i aporbloom}
 spell normally affects an area of a five-yard-radius sphere. When triggered from a thaumaturgic Circle, it affects only an area two-yards-square and 3 yards high. When triggered from a thaumaturgic Square, it affects an area eight-yards-square and 3 yards
 high. Thus, when used in a Circle, a Vaporbloom has a smaller-than-usual area of effect, while when used in a Square, it has a larger-than-usual area of effect.\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab GM N
ote: These larger- and smaller-than-normal areas of effect may be both a blessing and a curse, according to circumstances. For example, though the smaller-than-usual area of effect may sometimes rob a sorceror of more powerful effects, the ability to use c
ertain spells and rituals in close quarters without including oneself in the area of effect is often an advantage.\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Interfering with Thaumaturgic Forms}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Activated forms may not be interrupted by interfering with or destroying a form pattern. The magickal force structures, and the magick effects stored in them, are not affected by physical interference with form patterns.
\par 
\tab 
Forms may be interrupted magickally by two procedures: 1. triggering all the spells and ritual effects stored in the form, thereby deactivating the form, and 2. by reversing the casting of the appropriate form, which releases the energies of the spell and
 ritual effects stored in the form without triggering their magick effects.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Recording Spells and Rituals Stored in Thaumaturgic Forms}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab When a Thaumaturgic Form is created and activated by a player character or non-player character, the player or GM must record:\par 
\tab 1. the spell and ritual effects stored in the form\par 
\tab 2. the time when the form is activated\par 
\tab 3. the duration of the form\par 
\tab 4. whether the form is concealed or plainly visible\par 
\tab 5. (for Circles and Squares) the order in which the spell and ritual effects are to be triggered.\par 
\par 
{\ul Example: Recording a Thaumaturgic Circle\par 
}\tab A casting of a Circle might be recorded as follows:\par 
\tab Circle: 2 Deepsleeps and 1 Discorporate Flesh; activated 9AM (or mid-morning, or middle of the 2nd Day Watch, or whatever), 24 hours, circle concealed, trigger order: Deepsleep, Deepsleep, Discorporate Flesh.\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab GM Note: When indicating the time of activation, a simple phrase is usually sufficient (e.g., }\ldblquote {lunchtime}\rdblquote {, }\ldblquote {at the beginning of the first watch}\rdblquote {
). Sometimes you need to indicate the exact time and date when the form is activated. Most game sessions are run with a very informal sense of time and date, however; maintain that informal atmosphere as much as possible.\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Searching for Thaumaturgic Forms}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Form patterns and rune inscriptions are revealed by the use of the Sense Magick skill or the {\i detect magick}
 spell only if the form in question is currently activated. If the form is not activated, form patterns and rune inscriptions are not revealed by Sense Magick or {\i detect magick}
, and must be discovered by a physical search. Searching for concealed forms patterns and rune inscriptions is an unpleasant procedure for characters 
unskilled in the arcane arts, and an almost impossible task if the sorceror has time, wit, and will enough to conceal the form pattern and runes.\par 
\tab A character without access to the Sense Magick skill or {\i detect magick} spell, or who has been unsuccessful in his use of the Sense Magick skill, may want to physically search for evidence of thaumaturgic forms.\par 
\pard \qj\tx720\tx1080 \tab \bullet \tab If forms patterns and rune inscriptions have been erased by the caster (possible only with the Square), a character has no chance of discovering evidence of them through a physical search.\par 
\tab \bullet \tab If form patterns and rune inscriptions are plainly visible, a character searching for forms automatically finds them.\par 
\tab \bullet \tab If form patterns and rune inscriptions are concealed, a character has a chance to discover them equal to his Intelligence divided by 10.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Magick Effect Markers and Reading Form Runes}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sensing or detecting magick may reveal the presence of a magick effect, but it does not indicate whether the magick sensed or detected is a thaumaturgic form, another 
spell or ritual effect, or a magick artifact. Specifically, neither the use of {\i detect magick}
, or a successful use of the Sense Magick skill, reveals the type or class of thaumaturgic form, or, indeed, whether the magick effect is a thaumaturgic form or some other source of magick. Further, neither spells or rituals stored in a form may be determi
ned with a Sense Magick or {\i detect magick}.\par 
\tab When magick has been sensed or detected, a magick effect marker may be placed on the table. This indicates the presence of magick, but reveals no clue about the source or nature of the magick effect.\par 
\tab 
Having sensed or detected a source of magick, a character may search for a thaumaturgic form (as described above). I f a form pattern is discovered, a character with Rune Lore may attempt to use the skill to read the runes inscribed on the form. For each 
successful use of the Rune Lore skill, he may know one spell or ritual that has been stored in the form. He will not know whether a spell or ritual effect is still stored in the form, or whether it has already been expended.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Classes and Dimensions of Thaumaturgic Forms}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab There are three classes of Thaumaturgic Forms:\par 
\tab \bullet  Lesser Form: the simplest form, but with a limited area of effect.\par 
\tab \bullet 
 Greater Form: a more difficult form, greater in area of effect, and relatively more economical in magick energy cost per area affected; also, the form patterns and rune inscriptions of Greater Forms may be erased by the caster, with a corresponding dram
atic decrease in duration, but well-concealed from intruders.\par 
\tab \bullet  Elder Form: a very difficult form with area of effect identical to that of a Lesser Form, but which remains active indefinitely. Elder Forms are created by Greater Enchantments, not rituals, and as such are rarely encountered.\par 
\tab For game purposes, areas of effect for all thaumaturgic forms are expressed as square yards, in reference to the size of the form pattern, regardless of the actual shape and area of the form, whether it is a square, triangle, circle, or pentagram.
\par 
\tab 
As such, all Lesser and Elder Forms have a two-square-yard area of effect, which equals one one-inch square on the table. All Greater Forms have an area of effect of four square yards, or four adjacent one-inch squares on the table. The area of effect of 
all circles, triangles, squares, and pentagrams is 3 yards high (i.e., 1.5 inches table scale, 10 feet high setting scale), with vertical sides.\par 
\tab Example: Gruen Creates a Thaumaturgic Form.\par 
\tab Gruen, a 1st Rank War Wizard, is concerned that one of his watch guards might be overcome by an sorcerous intruder\rquote s {\i d}{\i eepsleep} spells. Gruen inscribes a Lesser Triangle form pattern to enclose the guard\rquote 
s watch station, inscribes the runes for the {\i l}{\i esser }{\i t}{\i riangle} ritual and the {\i d}{\i eepsleep}
 spell upon them, then casts a Lesser Triangle ritual to activate the triangle. (These actions are included in the 1d6+3 rounds required to cast the {\i l}{\i esser }{\i t}{\i riangle} {r}itual.)\par 
\tab Gruen then casts as many {\i d}{\i eepsleep} spells into the Lesser Triangle as he has Magick Points available to cast the spells. When his magick potential is exhausted, he Meditates and regains a few more points, then casts a few more {\i d}{\i 
eepsleep} spells into the Lesser Triangle for good measure. (Gruen puts a lot of time and energy into this operation, but in the end he has a guardpoint that can resist a half dozen or more {\i d}{\i eepsleep} spells.)\par 
\tab The Lesser Triangle remains activated and charged with the {\i d}{\i eepsleep} spells for 24 hours. At the end of that time the Lesser Triangle and the spells that charge the form fail.\par 
\tab For each {\i d}{\i eepsleep} spell cast at the triangle, and thus canceled, one Deepsleep charge of the form is expended. When all {\i d}{\i eepsleep}
 spells are expended, the magick effect of the Triangle ritual expires, the Triangle is no longer activated (though the form pattern and rune inscriptions remain unaltered), and the Triangle will no longer protect the guard against {\i d}{\i eepsleep}.
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Notes for the GM}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Thaumaturgic Forms are a new addition to the Warhammer sorceror{\rquote }s arcane arsenal. Expect them to have the following effects in play:\par 
\pard \qj\tx720\tx1080 \tab \bullet \tab 
Defense is favored over offense in magick melee. Forms are only effective when there is time to prepare them, typically on ground chosen for defense; forms are not mobile, and most effective in enclosed areas which are otherwise preferable for defense.
\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Forms are effective arcane security systems. Since they operate unattended, they may help protect sorcerors\rquote  dwellings, and those who hire sorcerors, from intruders.\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Preparation for attack (particularly ambush) and defense is encouraged and part
icularly effective. Expect sorcerors to be discouraged from impulsive tactical engagements; in fact, expect them to attempt swift disengagement and retreat if ambushed.\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Detection, approach, and investigation of sources of magick becomes a critical element of tactical problem solving.\par 
\tab \bullet \tab Magick-clumsy characters have to stumble into magickal boobytraps to find them. Magick competent characters are very cautious on ground likely to be boobytrapped. Clods and wizards alike are very cautious when confronted 
with prominently displayed thaumaturgic forms.\par 
\tab \bullet \tab 
Once a source of magick is detected, folks need to scoot forward and look for physical hints of forms. Once a form pattern is discovered, they can use their skills to try to figure out what magick is stored in the form, and whether they can risk fooling
 around with it.\par 
\tab \bullet \tab NPC monsters, orcs, and other cannon-fodder, being traditionally lousy at careful tactical approaches to defensive positions, will reward players by plowing energetically and colorfully into the PC sorceror\rquote 
s carefully planned magick traps.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s1\qc \b\f16\fs36 {Elemental and Daemon Summoning}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {Pentagrams}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The pentagram is a thaumaturgic form used to confine elementals and daemons during summonings. The arcane structure of the pentagram{\rquote }
s magick effects, and the trappings associated with the ritual (censers, candles, braziers, etc.), serve to amplify and focus the will and magickal energies of the summoner.\par 
\tab A secure pentagram provides magickal barriers which prevent a summoning from leaving the pentagram and from projecting mundane material, and magickal material or energy, across the barrier. A pentagram remains secure so long as the ritual{\rquote }
s form pattern, rune inscriptions, and trappings are complete and undisturbed, and so long as the summoner can maintain domination of the summoning by an exercise of will. If the pentagram or trappings are incomplete or disturbed, or if the summoning can o
vercome the summoner in a test of will, the summoning is no longer bound within the confines of the pentagram, and may attack to injure, slay, or possess the summoner without constraint.\par 
\tab The primary use of the pentagram is in summoning rituals, but pentagrams may also be used to ward against attacks from daemons and elementals which have entered the Material Realm by means other than a caster{\rquote }
s own summoning ritual (i.e., summoned by another daemonologist or magickal artifact, entered through a rift in the void, summoned by a Chaos cultist, etc.). The caster (and companions, if any) must be within the pentagram{\rquote }s area of effec
t at casting. Those inside the pentagram are protected its magickal wards.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {Essential Features of Summoning Rituals}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Calling an Elemental to the Summoner\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab If an individual elemental being is summoned by name or by title (i.e., Graknarabolza or {\ldblquote }Father of Rivers{\rdblquote } or {\ldblquote }Master of the Air{\rdblquote }
), that being comes to the summoner. Otherwise, an elemental being of various forms may be summoned according to the conditions of the each summoning ritual.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Calling a Daemon to the Summoner\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab If the daemon{\rquote }s truename is invoked, the individual sought is contacted, and obligated to respond.\par 
\tab If the daemon{\rquote }
s usename is invoked, the individual sought is contacted, but not obligated to respond, and may instead send an subordinate or allied daemon on his behalf. Typically, however, the individual named responds personally, unless it has reason to spite or fear 
the summoner.\par 
\tab If a false truename or usename is invoked, no daemon is summoned, and the MP and reagents expended in the summoning ritual are lost.\par 
\tab If the specific species of daemon is invoked (i.e., Bloodletter, Fleshhound, Keeper of Secrets, etc.), a representative of that species is summoned.\par 
\tab Otherwise, a random individual of the general type of daemon (i.e., imp, daemon steed, daemon creature, lesser daemon, greater daemon, daemon ruler, etc.) is summoned according to the type of ritual used (i.e., {\i summon imp}, {\i 
summon daemon steed}, etc.).\par 
\tab If a genuine usename or truename is invoked, but the ritual cast is not powerful enough to summon the class of the daemon named (i.e., i
f while casting a summon imp ritual a sorceror invokes the usename of a baalruhk), the named daemon may choose to appear or not. If it does choose to appear, the caster automatically fails the Control test, and the daemon attacks to possess or slay the ine
pt sorceror.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Testing the Summoner and the Pentagram}\rquote {s Wards\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab When an elemental or daemonic being is summoned to the Material Realm, it immediately engages the summoner in a contest of magickal forces. The elemental or daemonic being tries to overcome the pentagram{\rquote }
s wards as the summoner focuses his mind, spirit, and magickal potential into reinforcing those wards.\par 
\tab If the being can overpower the summoner and break out of the pentagram, it is free to act as it desires in the Material Realm for the duration of the ritual effect, subject to tests for Instability (see page ??). See {\ldblquote }
Uncontrolled Elementals and Daemons{\rdblquote } below.\par 
\tab If the being fails to break out of the pentagram, its will to resist the summoner is temporarily exhausted, and it is forced to serve t
he summoner for the duration of the ritual effect (subject to tests for Instability, see page ??). For conditions of service, see the individual summoning rituals descriptions in the spell lists. Also see {\ldblquote }Elemental Behaviors{\rdblquote }
 below.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Control Test}s}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
The summoner tests against his Will Power to bind the elemental or daemonic being within the pentagram. (If more than one being is summoned within a single pentagram, the single test governs the success or failure in controlling all beings within the pent
agram.) \par 
\tab Modifiers to the summoner{\rquote }s Will Power test are summarized in the following Control Test Will Power Modifiers Chart.\par 
\tab Regardless of the summoner{\rquote }s Will Power and appropriate modifiers, the test of wills is never a sure thing. A roll of 96-00 when testing Will Power to control an elemental or daemonic being always results in the failure of the test.\par 
\tab Note: Neither the summoner nor the summoned being may expend MP to reduce or augment the control test; this is not a magickal resistance test.\par 
\par 
\pard \qc {\ul Control Test Will Power Modifiers Chart\par 
}\pard \qj \tab Creature Summoned Is:\par 
\pard \qj\tx720\tx1440\tqr\tx7200 \tab \tab Elemental Node\tab +60\par 
\tab \tab Least Elemental\tab +40\par 
\tab \tab Lesser Elemental\tab +30\par 
\tab \tab Greater Elemental \tab +10\par 
\tab \tab Wisentlich \tab -50\par 
\tab \tab Imp \tab +60\par 
\tab \tab Daemonic Steed \tab +40\par 
\tab \tab Daemon Creature\tab +30\par 
\tab \tab Lesser Daemon \tab  0\par 
\tab \tab Djinn \tab -25\par 
\tab \tab Greater Daemon \tab -50\par 
\pard \qj\tx720\tqr\tx7200 \tab Pentagram Incomplete, Disturbed, or Absent \tab -50\par 
\tab Being's Truename Invoked \tab +50\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Uncontrolled Elementals and Daemons}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Elemental and daemonic beings which win the contest of wills and escape the summoner's control are free to act without restrai
nt in the Material Realm for the duration of the ritual effect (subject to tests for Instability). Typically this means the being attacks the summoner to injure, slay, or possess him, though many beings may prefer to indulge other impulses when set loose f
or a period of time in the Material Realm. Some beings like to wreak havoc indiscriminately, others like to play pranks and cause mischief. Some seek to satisfy various appetites, while others like to collect odd artifacts or body parts.\par 
\tab The gamemaster ma
y use the following guidelines for the behavior of uncontrolled elemental and daemonic beings at his discretion. He is also invited to adapt these guidelines to suit the personality and motivations of the summoned being, and the circumstances and opportuni
ties presented by the setting.\par 
\tab If the contest of wills was fairly even (if the summoner\rquote s WP test was failed by no more than 29 points), then the being is somewhat exhausted and wary of its summoner. It attacks the summoner for 1d6+3 rounds, then turns it
s attentions to other opportunities for mischief and destruction for the duration of ritual effect.\par 
\tab If the being won the contest of wills quite easily (if the summoner\rquote s WP test was failed by 30 points or more), then the being is greatly encouraged, and attacks the summoner to slay or (if a daemon) possess him.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s2\qj \b\f16 Service Traits and Service Tests}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Service Traits\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Even when controlled by a summoner, elementals and daemons are not always reliably cooperative, and may serve and follow a summoner\rquote s commands with more or less enthusiasm and faithfulness.\par 
\tab Different classes of elementals and daemons have very different personalities when confronted with a summoner\rquote s commands. These different personalities are represented by an elemental or a daemon\rquote 
s Service Traits, which consist of their Faithful and Vengeful scores.\par 
\tab An elemental's personality is governed by the nature of its Elemental Domain, so elemental sprites have Faithful and Vengeful scores as follows:\par 
\tab \tab Sprites of Air: Faithful 10, Vengeful 4.\par 
\tab \tab Sprites of Water: Faithful 17, Vengeful 5.\par 
\tab \tab Sprites of Fire: Faithful 7, Vengeful 10.\par 
\tab \tab Sprites of Earth: Faithful 17, Vengeful 3.\par 
\tab The personalities of daemons are more erratic and unpredictable. See the descriptions in Chapter {6}, \ldblquote Daemons\rdblquote , for the Service Traits of different classes of daemons.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Service Tests\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab When a summoned being is commanded to perform a specific task or service, the GM rolls 3d6.\par 
\tab If the roll is equal or less than the Faithful score, the summoned being is earnestly cooperative in achieving
 the task or service requested. It will also faithfully perform the task or service, regardless of whether it remains within the control radius of the summoner.\par 
\tab If the roll is less than the Faithful score, the GM rolls 3d6 again. If the score is equal to or less than the Vengeful score, the summoned being petulantly refuses to perform the task, or spitefully conspires to misconstrue and sabotage the summoner
\rquote s request. If the roll is greater than the Vengeful score, the summoned being dutifully but unenthusiastically does as he is requested, so long as it remains within the caster\rquote 
s control range (BMP yards). In either case, once beyond the BMP-yards control radius of the summoner, the summoned being may decide to abandon the summoner, returning to Nature or to the Void, or working mischief as an uncontrolled elemental or daemon.
\par 
\tab The rolls are made by the GM, and concealed from the player. The player must figure out the summoned being\rquote s response from its behavior. The GM should always roll 3d6 twice, even i
f the summoned being is Faithful, to prevent the player from inferring from a single roll that the summoned being is Faithful. If the summoned being is Faithful, the second roll is a dummy roll that is ignored.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {If the Summoner Y}{ields to an Uncontrolled Daemon}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A summoner attacked by an uncontrolled daemon has the option of yielding to the daemon rather than defending himself with weapon and spell.\par 
\tab If the summoner attempts to yield to a daemon attacker, test vs. the daemon\rquote s Intelligence. If the test is successful, the daemon accepts the summoner's surrender and bears him off to serve the daemon f
or a month and a day in the Chaos Realm. If the test fails, the daemon is too excited about the opportunity to savage or possess a mortal being to accept the summoner\rquote s surrender.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Serv}{ing a Daemon in the Chaos Realm}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The summoner\rquote s physical body remains in the Material Realm in a trance for the duration of the summoner\rquote s service. The entranced summoner\rquote 
s body is of course vulnerable to all sorts of trials and misfortunes, including imprisonment and casual murder, but is not subject to starvation or death by similar natural causes.\par 
\tab The entranced summoner\rquote 
s Spirit is borne away with the daemon when the ritual effect ends, and it must serve the daemon in the Chaos Universe for a month and a day. Details of the service are left to the fertile imagination of the Gamemaster and player. When the summoner
\rquote s Spirit is returned to its body at the end of the month and a day, the summoner gains 2d6 Insanity Points immediately.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 I{f a Daemon At}tempts to Possess the Summoner{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab If an uncontrolled daemon chooses to attack to possess the summoner, its attacks are directed against the summoner\rquote 
s MP. This is called a Spirit Combat (see below). If the summoner wins, the daemon is cast back into its own dreamworld a powerless husk, where the other daemons mock, bully, and abuse
 it most mercilessly. If the daemon wins, the caster is Possessed (see below).\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Spirit Combat}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Spirit combat is a aethyrial form of magickal attack. Daemons are the only beings capable of this form of attack. In a Spirit Combat, the daemon\rquote s Spirit energies directly engage its opponent\rquote 
s Spirit energies in a test of strength. The winner of each round of Spirit Combat wrests away a bit of its opponent\rquote s magickal energy. For observers which detect magick, the loser\rquote s dispersed magickal power is visible as a c
olorful spray of aurora-like aethyrial energy. The Spirit Combat ends when one participant has reduced his opponent\rquote 
s magickal reserves to zero. If the daemon is the loser, he is immediately banished to his own plane in disgrace, drained of power, and an easy mark for abuse by his fellow daemons. If the daemon\rquote 
s opponent is the loser, he is possessed by the daemon.\par 
\tab During the Spirit Combat, both participants are in a trance, and can perform no other action. Both are regarded as {\b prone} for the purposes of melee attacks.\par 
\tab In game terms, the daemon and its opponent each roll 2d6 and adds it to the being\rquote s Current Magick Point Score (CMP) each round. The loser loses 1d6+1 MP. The process is repeated each round until one subject\rquote 
s CMP score is reduced to zero. If it\rquote s the daemon, the daemon is banished to the Void. If it\rquote s the daemon\rquote s opponent, he\rquote s possessed.\par 
\tab Note: With the {\i bind daemon} ritual, a caster may force a daemon to Spirit Combat.\par 
{\v \par 
[[Daemons and elementals in this volume will be specified with MP scores. A note in the Daemon and Elemental chapter could explain the term "daemonic power points," }{\v\ul Realm of Chaos}{\v 
, Slaves, page 75, in terms of MP, or we could just ignore the DPP references there.]]\par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Recovery of Magickal Power after Spirit Combat\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Possessed c
aster regains MP at a rate of 1 MP per day. A defeated daemon regains MP at a rate of 1 MP per day. This is true for Bound daemons as well as for daemons banished to their own planes as a result of a defeat in Spirit Combat. (See below.)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Bound Daemons}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A Bound Daemon is one who has been defeated in spirit combat, and bound to this plane by the {\i bind daemon}
 ritual. A bound daemon is obligated to remain in the Material Realm serving its master for a year and a day. (See {\i bind daemon} { }ritual, p{age} ??.)\par 
\tab In the Spi
rit Combat which permitted the binding, a Bound Demon has been reduced to zero MP. The Bound Daemon recovers MP very slowly in the Material Realm (1 MP per day), and therefore will be in a weakened condition for the early days of his service to his summone
r.\par 
\tab {\ul Controlling Bound Daemons}: The caster must dedicate a portion of his Spirit to controlling the bound daemon, to the preservation and sustenance of the daemon in the Material Realm, and to the neutralization of the daemon\rquote 
s magickal power, thus keeping the daemon in bondage.\~
 As long as the sorceror dedicates the necessary portion of his Spirit to the control of the bound daemon, the daemon is helpless to rebel against its servitude. If the sorceror allows his control to lapse, however, the daemon is no 
longer bound, and may attack the sorceror without restraint.\par 
\tab In game terms, the caster must reserve 1 CMP per BMP of each bound daemon in his control. Magick Points dedicated to a Bound Daemon should be used for casting spells or ritual, for activating artifacts, or for any other magickal purpose. If a caster
\rquote s MP drops below the number of points necessary to control one or more bound daemons (for example, because the caster has been attacked magickally), the bound daemons are immediately released from ser
vice, and will attack the caster, either to slay or to possess, at the GM\rquote s option.\par 
\tab Example: Lazar Loder, a Daemonologist Rank 4 with a BMP score of 51, has bound two daemons into his service, one imp with a BMP score of 6 and another daemon creature with
 a BMP score of 10. To maintain these two daemons in bondage, he must not allow his CMP score to fall below 16. If Loder\rquote 
s CMP score does fall below 16, both daemons are immediately released from bondage, and will likely attempt to slaughter or possess Loder with prodigious enthusiasm.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Possessed Characters}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A daemon in Possession of a character has defeated the character in Spirit Combat (see above), and taken control of the character\rquote s Spirit. A daemon in possession of a character is in fact inhabiting the character
\rquote s Spirit; therefore, the daemon may remain in the Material Realm without magickal assistance (not normally possible for a daemon).\par 
\tab After possession, the character\rquote 
s consciousness is completely submerged within the consciousness of the possessing daemon for 1d6+3 hours. During this period, the character is not aware of the actions of his body, being in a deep, hypnotic sleep. Also, th
e daemon can use the skills and abilities of the character without interference.\par 
\tab When the character\rquote s consciousn
ess awakens, he realizes that a daemon is in control of his body, and may attempt to throw off the possession by initiating a Spirit Combat with the possessing daemon. If the character wins the battle, the daemon is cast out, and instantly is sucked into t
he Void, because no magickal effect maintains it here. If the daemon wins the combat, the character is knocked out for another 1d6+3 hours\'c9 and the cycle may continue.\par 
\tab If the daemon is too powerful for the character to have any hope of defeating it in Spi
rit Combat, the character must wait for the daemon to reduce its CMP (for example, by expending MP to save vs. a magick attack). Then the character may initiate a Spirit Combat on the daemon when the daemon is most vulnerable. Exorcisms (cult rituals for c
asting out daemons) work by engaging the possessing daemon in a Spirit Combat, thus reducing the daemon\rquote s CMP, thus making it easier for the captive spirit to cast out the daemon.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 Restrictions of Runemasters Summoning Elementals}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj\fi720 \f16\fs20 Runemasters tend to view the world in six elements: the usual Earth, Air, Fire, and Water, and the Aethyr and Void. This belief is the basis of the CornerRunes (see Chapter 2
), and the six are generally depicted in magickal texts as the corners of an octahedron. (Scholars have noted that this arrangement and the six-pointed symbol of Sigmar are remarkably similar
, and it is suspected that the former is the inspiration for the latter.)\par 
Of these six elements, the Runemasters feel the most affinity for Earth, Aethyr, and perhaps Void. The Earth is symbolic of their origins, and the Aethyr is both symbolic of the mind and the source of all Castings. 
While the Void is dangerously close to the subject of Chaos, Void energies are also the basis for the various Forms, and Runemasters have a number of spells dedicated to removing the effects of Chaos.\par 
As a result, the sorts of Elementals which can be summoned through Runemagick are limited. Earth Elementals may be summoned, obviously, as long as the reagents are present. 
More powerful Fire elementals may only be summoned from sources such as forges, though Nodes and Least elementals may be summoned from sources such as bonfires. Water elementals may be summoned, but only from underground water sources. 
Air elementals may never be summoned.\par 
When a Runemaster summons an Elemental, his Control roll is modified by the domain of the Elemental. Runemasters have +10 WP for controlling Earth Elementals, and -10 WP for controlling elementals from all other domains.\par 
As for the other two elements, Aethyr and Void Elementals don\rquote t exist. The Runemasters generally regard the Undead as being Aethyr Elementals, and Daemons as being Void Elementals, but efforts at summoning either kind have met with failure.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Some Examples of Elemental and Daemonic Summonings}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab 
Example #1: Helma of the White Hood, an Elementalist Rank 3 with a Will Power of 45, summons a Lesser Geonome, a Lesser Elemental of Earth, to assist her in the task of fortifying her campsite against goblin raiders. With the modifier of +30 for su
mmoning a Lesser Elemental, Helma will win the Will Power test if a 75 or lower is rolled.\par 
\tab 
However, Fortune does not smile on Helma. The dice roll is 89. The test is failed, and the Elemental is not controlled. Since the test was not failed by more than 29 points, the Elemental expresses its displeasure by chasing Helma around for 1d6+3 rounds,
 then spends the rest of the duration of the ritual effect in tearing up Helma's campsite and tent and sticking her mule in the lower branches of a tree.\par 
\tab Example #2: Helma, undaunted, or more daunted by the prospect of a goblin raid on her campsite, prepares to try once more to summon a Lesser Geonome. This time the dice roll is 73, and the elemental is controlled.\par 
\tab 
First Helma asks the Lesser Geonome to get her mule out of the tree. The GM rolls 3d6 secretly twice. The first throw is a 12, which is less than the Geonome's Faithful score; the second throw is a dummy toss and ignored. The Geonome politely plucks the m
ule from the tree.\par 
\tab Next Helma asks the Lesser Geonome to push up a solid earth embankment around her camp. GM rolls 3d6 secretly twice. The first throw is a 16, which is less than the Geonome\rquote 
s Faithful score; the second throw is a dummy toss and ignored. The Geonome slowly but carefully pushes up an earth embankment around the camp.\par 
\tab Finally Helma asks the Lesser Geonome to tidy up the mess left by the first Lesser Geonome. GM rolls 3d6 secretly twice. The first throw is an 18, which is greater than the Geonome\rquote s Faithful score; the second throw is a 6, an
d greater than the Geonome\rquote s Vengeful score, so it doesn\rquote t get nasty, it just isn\rquote t very enthusiastic. The Geonome slowly plows bits of the wreckage of Helma\rquote s tent and gear into a none-too-tidy pile until the summoning ritual
\rquote s duration expires.\par 
\tab Example #3: Sardul Strikker, a Daemonologist Rank 2 with a Will Power of 55, invokes the fiendish horde ritual, summoning a group of five daemon creatures to scourge a careless team of Guild enforcers intent on terminating Strikker\rquote 
s unsanctioned experiments with 
daemoncraft. Unhappily for Strikker, the enforcers have caught him unprepared, and he must perform the summons without preparing a pentagram. With the modifiers of +30 for summoning daemon creatures and -50 for summoning without a pentagram, Strikker will 
win the Will Power test if a 35 or greater is rolled.\par 
\tab The dice roll is 72. The test is failed, and the daemon creatures are not controlled. Since the test was failed by more than 29 points, the five daemon creatures set upon Strikker with the cheery prosp
ect of shredding him limb from limb. However, since the Gamemaster decides that the approaching Guild enforcers are tempting targets, he arbitrarily decides that each daemon creature has a 20% chance of going after the intrepid enforcers instead of poor St
rikker.\par 
\tab Example #4: Wager Stillingfleet, a Daemonologist Rank 1 with a Will Power of 40, summons an imp to answer some abstruse queries about the melting point of flesh. Since the modifier for summoning an imp is +60, Stillingfleet will win the Will Power
 test unless a 96 or greater is rolled.\par 
\tab And guess what? A 00 is rolled! What a nice surprise for Stillingfleet!\par 
\tab 
Of course, daemonic beings usually attempt to attack their summoners when they get loose on the Material Plane. However, imps are not very tough, and they stand to take worse than they deliver in a melee. So the Gamemaster decides that the imp will settle
 for ransacking and looting Stillingfleet's lab instead. The imp tucks two or three priceless reference volumes under a scaly limb, kicks over 
the braziers (setting the lab on fire), then scampers out a window to hide in a bush until the ritual duration ends.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 {Notes and Commentary on Summonings}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Summoning without Pentagrams}: Elemental
s and daemons can be summoned without a pentagram, but a sorceror who summons an elemental or daemon without a pentagram is not protected by its wards nor aided in the test of Will Power by the pentagram\rquote s focusing of the summoner\rquote 
s mental and magickal resources. (The Will Power test to control the elemental or daemon is at a penalty of -50.) Summoning elementals or daemons without a pentagram is therefore a doubtful practice, though with more feeble entities like imps and nodes, th
e summoner does not face a very great risk of mortal injury.\par 
\tab {\ul Disturbing a Pentagram}
: Disturbing the censers at the five points of a pentagram or the form pattern or rune inscriptions of the pentagram permanently interrupts the ritual effect. Summoned beings are prevented from disturbing the pentagram by its magickal wards. However, any i
ntruder or mischief-maker could easily scuff a hole in a boundary or kick over a censer; at long range, a well-aimed missile or a suitable spell could tip over or extinguish a censer.\par 
\tab {\ul Alternate Practices of Daemonology}
: The daemonology presented in this volume is the most restrained, respectable daemonology practiced in the world. You can bet your best suit that the practices of daemonology among Dark Elves and Chaos sorcerors are considerably more dreadful than the aca
demic practices of Old World daemonologists. For example, consider the colorful and appalling pentagram ritual of the Dark Elves of Naggaroth. Like the Aztecs, the Dark Elves bring a special enthusiasm to human sacrifice. They carve t
heir pentagram into a ritually sacrificed victim. The victim\rquote s blood pours into pentagram-shaped gouges in an altar. The daemon manifests within victim\rquote 
s body, which stands up with a wet, sucking sound, whereupon the daemon speaks through the ruined victim\rquote s mouth, inquiring as to the services required by its master. Pleasant, yes? Aren\rquote t you glad you\rquote re a civilized daemonologist?
\par 
\tab {\ul Daemonic Usenames and Truenames}: Researching daemonic usenames and truenames in the Old World is very difficult. The study and 
practice of daemonology is generally illegal, and possession of daemonological references is commonly grounds for execution. Some academies and magick guilds maintain libraries of daemonic references, but access to these references is aggressively restrict
ed. Historians, antiquarians, collectors, adventurers, and daemonologists may have their own, small private libraries of daemon lore, but are, of course, unlikely to advertise them, and unlikely to permit strangers to review them.\par 
\tab Nonetheless, learning usenames and truenames is critical for summoning just the right daemon for the occasion at hand. Citations of usenames are much more common; a veteran daemonologist\rquote 
s library might cite one to a dozen usenames for his most commonly-summoned beings. Usenames 
are often given to devoted demon worshippers by the daemon himself, and summoned daemons can sometimes be persuaded to inform upon one another. Daemonic informants are notoriously inaccurate and treacherous, but a vengeful or spiteful daemon might cheerful
ly inform on a hated daemonic enemy.\par 
\tab On the other hand, truenames are rarely found, and exceptionally difficult to recognize, decipher, and pronounce when they are encountered. Searching for clues to a daemon\rquote 
s truename might consume the energies of a dedicated daemonologist for decades, or a fanatic servant of a Great Power might receive a truename of a Lesser Daemon as a reward for years of faithful service and as the crowning achievement of his career.
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \f16 A Recommendation for PC Daemonologists\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Certain ev
eryday daemons (imps, steeds, creatures, etc.) are less dangerous to summon; they are much less likely to win a test of Will Power, and when they do win, they are even less likely to win by 30 points or more. Other daemons (lesser daemons, greater daemons,
 djinn/efreet, baalruhks), however, pose terrible risks of mutilation, murder, or possession when summoned. Insane, power-crazed NPC villains won\rquote t let such risks intimidate them; it\rquote 
s a symptom of their depraved insanity, and a Sacred Duty to perform these injudicious, suicidal acts so the plots of adventure scenarios can continue. On the other hand, a sensible PC fearful for his character's well-being ({\b and}
 the well-being of his PC companions) should not summon the more powerful daemons without a very good reason.\par 
\pard \qj \tab PCs interested in summoning powerful daemons (for plot reasons, or for sheer power-grabbing) should take the precaution of searching out a daemon\rquote 
s truename before attempting to summon it. The GM controls access to such information, and should make this a very difficult task, just to keep the magickal elements of the campaign from getting out of hand.\par 
}