{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 
Normal;}{\s2\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext2 Character Profile;}{\s3\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext3 Chapter Heading;}{\s4\qj \b\f16 
\sbasedon0\snext4 Section heading;}{\s5\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext5 GM Notes;}{\s6\qj \f16 \sbasedon0\snext6 Subsection heading;}}{\info}\widowctrl\ftnbj\pgnstart0\fracwidth {\*\nextfile perv.gov:Sorcerous Careers}\sectd 
\sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain \s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 Realms of Sorcery\tab Terms and Rules\tab Page {\chpgn }\par 
}\pard\plain \s3\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s3\qc \b\f16\fs36 Chapter 2\: Terms and Rules}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 {\par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Terms and Standard Conventions\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab {\ul Mastery Level}: Within the advanced sorcerous careers are different Mastery Levels, according to the level of spells that a character is qualified to cast. For example, the War Wizard career has four Mastery Levels, One through Four
, with Mastery Level Four being the highest level of skill, permitting the casting of the most powerful spells.\par 
\tab {\ul Rank} (also Degree): Terms indicating a sorceror{\rquote }s level of proficiency as recognized by the {magick} guilds and academies. {\ldblquote }Hedgewizard{\rdblquote } and {\ldblquote }Academic Apprentice{\rdblquote }
 are the lowest levels of proficiency, and accounted as roughly equivalent. {\ldblquote }First Rank{\rdblquote ,} {\ldblquote }Second Rank{\rdblquote ,} {\ldblquote }Third Rank{\rdblquote ,} and {\ldblquote }Fourth Rank{\rdblquote }
 correspond to an advanced sorceror{\rquote }s Mastery Level (see above). The term {\ldblquote }degree{\rdblquote } is used almost interchangeably. In formal circumstances, a sorceror is usually addressed by his rank,
 for instance, Hedgewizard Heinrich of Ulm, or Elementalist Third Rank Gustaphus Adolphus.\par 
\tab {\ul Magick}{\ul  Points} (MP): A measure of potential {magick}al energy. The Warhammer sorceror{\rquote }s term for this is {\ldblquote Magick} Potential{\rdblquote .}\par 
\tab {\ul Basic }{\ul Magick}{\ul  Point Score} (BMP): A measure of a being{\rquote }s potential for creating {magick} effects. The Warhammer sorceror{'}s technical term for this is {\ldblquote }Basal {Magick} Potential{\rdblquote }. 
In game terms, BMP is a character{\rquote }s total {magick} point score when not depleted by expenditures for spellcasting or production of other {magick}al effects. Listed as the final score in a Character Profile.\par 
\tab {\ul Current }{\ul Magick}{\ul  Point Score} (CMP): A measure of a being{\rquote }s reduced {magick} potential as a result of expending energy to produce {magick}al effects. The Warhammer sorceror{'}s technical term for this is {\ldblquote }
Curtailed {Magick} Potential{\rdblquote }. In game terms, CMP is a character{\rquote }s BMP score minus any points expended to produce {magick}al effects.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }GM Note: Warhammer Roleplay characters refer to {\fs18 \ldblquote }Magick Potential{\fs18 \rdblquote }{,} {\fs18 \ldblquote }Basal Magick Potential{\fs18 \rdblquote }{,} and {\fs18 \ldblquote }Curtailed Magick Potential
{\fs18 \rdblquote }. Gamemasters and players refer to {\fs18 \ldblquote }Magick Points{\fs18 \rdblquote }{,} {\fs18 \ldblquote }Basic Magick Point Score{\fs18 \rdblquote }{,} and {\fs18 \ldblquote }Current Magick Point Score{\fs18 \rdblquote }{: }
game mechanics terms.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Range}: The maximum distance between a caster and the location or subject where a {magick}al effect may be cast, or the being or object that must be touched by the caster in order to produce the {magick}al effect.\par 
\tab {\ul Casting}: A casting is a procedure for creating a {magick} effect. The term includes spells and rituals, whether cast by a sorceror or alchemist, or from an enchanted artifact. 
A casting is the combination of an enchanted rune focus, spoken words, and mental concentration used by a sorceror or alchemist to produce a {magick}al effect. {Magick}al effects produced by {magick}al artifacts, but which are not spells or rituals, and {
magick} effect caused by inherently {magick}al beings, are not generally referred to as castings.\par 
\tab {\ul Spell}: A {magick}al effect produced by a sorceror which can be cast in a single round.\par 
\tab {\ul Ritual}: A {magick}al effect produced by a sorceror which requires more than one round to cast, typically 1d6+3 rounds.\par 
\tab {\ul Alchemical Compound}: An alchemical preparation which produces {magick}al effects. Alchemical compounds include reagents which contribute the arcane energy necessary to produce the {magick}al effects, and therefore do not draw from the user{'}
s reservoirs of {magick}al potential.\par 
\tab {\ul Formula}: The procedures and ingredients necessary to produce an alchemical compound (i.e., a recipe for an alchemical compound).\par 
\tab {\ul Reagents}: Alchemical products, concentrated and refined from substances with {magick}al properties, used in spells, rituals, and enchantments, and in the manufacture of alchemical compounds.\par 
\tab {\ul Rune}: Written form of the {\b lingua praestantia}. Includes Identity Runes, spell runes, runes used to enchant sorcerous artifacts, and Inscriptions.\par 
\tab {\ul Inscription}: Identity Rune and Spell Rune combined into one.  Used by Runemasters to work magick.\par 
\tab {\ul CornerRune}: Special purpose rune used to enhance inscriptions\rquote  effectiveness.\par 
\tab {\ul Sorcerous}{\ul  Artifact}: An enchanted object that produces a {magick}al effect.\par 
\tab {\ul Magick}{\ul al Effect}: Unless otherwise specified, references assume that the term {\ldblquote magick}al effect{\rdblquote } usually includes the effects of spells, rituals, and {magick}al artifacts alike.\par 
\tab {\ul Active and Inactive }{\ul Magick}{\ul al Effects}: A spell, ritual, or {magick}al artifact that is currently producing a {magick}al effect causes an {\ldblquote }active {magick}al effect{\rdblquote }
 that may be perceptible to an outside observer using the Sense {Magick} skill. Any being or {magick}al artifact that is capable of producing a {magick}al effect, but which is not currently producing a {magick}al effect, causes only an {\ldblquote }
inactive {magick}al effect{\rdblquote ,} which ordinarily cannot be perceived without use of a {\i detect }{\i magick} spell, or other spells, rituals, or {magick}al devices with similar abilities.\par 
\tab {\ul Elemental }{\ul Magick}{\ul  Effect}: {Magick}al effects which affect the substantial world are called elemental effects. Such {magick}al effects do not normally permit a subject a test vs. Will Power to resist their effects. 
See individual spell, ritual, and artifact descriptions for specifics.\par 
\tab {\ul Mental }{\ul Magick}{\ul  Effect}: {Magick}al effects which affect the aethyrial world, typically the mind of a subject, are called mental effects. Such {magick}al effects often permit a subject a test vs. Will Power to resist their effects. 
See individual spell, ritual, and artifact descriptions for specifics.\par 
\tab {\ul Void }{\ul Magick}{\ul  Effect}: {Magick}al effects which affect the void or the boundary between the Material Realm and the void are called void effects. Such {magick}
al effects do not normally permit a subject a test vs. Will Power to resist their effects. See individual spell, ritual, and artifact descriptions for specifics.\par 
\tab {\ul Spirit, Mind, Psyche}: The aethyrial, insubstantial, {magick}al component of a living being present in the Material Realm. A tenuous, non-substantial field of {magick}al force extending as an irregular spheroid from the being{\rquote }s brain. (
The spirits of living things without brains, such as plants, amoebae, and various monstrous creatures, extend roughly from their center of mass.) The size of the spheroid depends on the current strength of the being{\rquote }s personal reservoir of {
magick}al force: typically 5 yards or less in radius for non-spellcasters, considerably larger for spellcasters. The Spirit has a spherical volume with a radius equal to 1 yard multiplied by the being{\rquote }s Base {Magick} Points Score.\par 
\tab {\ul Soul}: The aethyrial, insubstantial {magick}al component of a living being located in the Chaos Realm. The Soul in the Chaos Realm is anchored to the Mind of a Being in the Material Realm by an aethyrial link called the Animus. 
At death the Animus is severed and the Soul is set adrift in Chaos (also known as the Sea of Souls).\par 
\tab {\ul Animus}: The aethyrial link between the Mind in the Material Realm and the Soul in the Chaos Realm.\par 
\tab {\ul Body}: The elemental, substantial, mundane component of a living being. Plants and animals have substantial bodies, typically composed of plant or fleshy matter; many {magick}
al beings have bodies of various elemental substances, or may assume bodily forms at will.\par 
\tab {\ul Focus}: An object carved with the necessary runes for casting spells and rituals known by a sorceror; the simplest form of enchanted artifact. Traditionally a wooden staff, but may be any object large enough to bear the appropriate runes.\par 
\tab {\ul The Chaos Realm} (also The Void): A paraspatial domain dominated by aethyr, {magick}al energy without structure, and governed by the Laws of Chance and the Greater and Lesser Powers. Travel through this domain requires {magick}
al abilities available to daemons, divine beings, some spellcasters, and other {magick}al creatures.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note: In Warhammer 40,000, Warp Space is a commonly-used term for the Void.{ }However, denizens of the Warhammer Fantasy World would not be familiar with this term.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul The Void Boundary}: An aethyrial barrier between the Material and Chaos Realms.\par 
\tab {\ul The Material Realm}: The Real World. The world of matter and substance. Warhammer World.\par 
\tab {\ul Shadowrealms}: The innumerable fantastic worlds that lie beyond the Void Barrier. These worlds may only be reached by {magick}
al means, typically through sorcery or through the Gate artifacts of the Old Slann. The shadowrealms best known to Warhammer scholars are the Afterworlds of the various Divine Powers and the Shadowrealms of the Four Great Powers of Chaos.\par 
\tab {\ul Aethyr}: The {Magick}al Principle. {Magick}al Power. In the Material Realm, it appears as a scarce, all-pervasive intangible force, and as an extremely rare material form known as Warpstone or Warpdust. 
In the Void, and in the shadowrealms, aethyr is abundant and assumes an infinite variety of forms and manifestations.\par 
\tab {\ul Portal}: An opening from the Material Realm into the Void.\par 
\tab {\ul Gate}: A {magick}al tunnel from the Material Realm through the Void to another location. Gates may connect one location in the Material Realm with another, or may connect to another real world or shadowrealm.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note: Portals and gates are artifacts of the Ancient Old Slann, and incomprehensible to modern sorcerors and scholars.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul Vortex}: A large rift in the boundary between the Void and the Material Realm.\par 
\tab {\ul Pinhole}: A small vortex. May drain energy from shadowrealm beings, causing them to become insubstantial or to be sucked out of the Material Realm into the Void.\par 
\tab {\ul Spike}: A surge of {magick}al energies into the Material Realm from the Void which may bloat shadowrealm entities with power, or may allow other shadowrealm creatures to enter the Material Realm.\par 
\tab {\ul I}{\ul nstability}: The waxing and waning of the {magick}al power of certain shadowrealm entities caused by flux in the aethyrial energies of the Chaos Realm. Pinholes and spikes are the cause of this phenomenon.\par 
\tab {\ul Warhammer Fantasy World and Warhammer 40,000}: Warhammer World is a tiny but significant planet in the Warhammer 40,000 universe. 
This world possesses a late medieval culture and technology, enhanced by a sophisticated understanding of sorcerous and divine {magick}s. Small though Warhammer Fantasy World may be against the background of Warhammer 40,000{\rquote }
s galaxy-spanning Imperium, Warhammer Fantasy World is nonetheless at center stage for events of epic significance in the struggle between the Emperor and the Forces of Chaos, and in the ultimate renewal of hope for mankind as represented by the myth of th
e Star Child.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Magick Points}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {Magick} Points (MP) are a measure of the quantity and quality of the {magick}al energy stored in a being{\rquote }s Spirit. All living beings have this {magick}
al reservoir, though the amount of energy stored varies according to the creature and from individual to individual.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Comparative MP Scale Chart for Divine and Mortal Spirits\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note: Magick Points are a game mechanics term.{ }Warhammer folk don\rquote t go around talking about how many magick points their god has.{ This chart} is just to give you some idea of the comparative scale of magick
 capacities possessed by various Warhammer entities.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab {\ul The Earth Mother}: 10,000,000,000 - 100,000,000,000 MP\par 
\tab {\ul Young Gods} (children of Earth Mother, including Manann, Ulric, Sigmar, etc.), Gods of Law and Chaos: 1,000,000 - 10,000,000,000 MP\par 
\tab {\ul Greater Entities} (Examples: Wisentlich, Demon Rulers, Godlings of Law and Chaos), 100 - 1,000,000 MP\par 
\tab {\ul Lesser Entities} (Rural and Wilderness Spirits (Leshy, Vodyanoy, and other ancient spirits of Kislev), Totemic Animal and Plant Spirits (The Great Leopard, The Father Oak), some {magick}al beings like ancient treemen, fimir, giants, and dragons)
: 50 - 100 MP\par 
\tab {\ul Mortals} (Examples: all plants, animals, humans, most {magick}al beings like unicorns, pixies, griffin, etc.): .001 - 50 MP.  Typical humans have 5 MP or fewer. The least plant has .001 MP.\par 
\par 
\tab Many {magick}al activities (spellcasting, rituals, use of {magick}al artifacts, etc.) require the expenditure of {magick}al energy. In spellcasting and rituals, the sorceror generally must provide this energy from his own {magick}al
 reservoir, temporarily reducing the amount of energy he has for producing further {magick}al effects. In game terms, this draining is measured in {Magick} Points subtracted from the character{\rquote }s Current {Magick} Point score. {Magick}
al artifacts generally drain {Magick} Points from the user; exceptional items may draw power from spirits or daemons bound within them.\par 
\tab Sorcerous and Divine spellcasting characters need {Magick} Points to cast spells and produce other {magick}al effects. Non-spellcasters need {Magick} Points to provide power for any {magick}al artifacts they may employ.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note:{ }Alchemists use Measures of Aethyr Salts, not {Magick} Points, to cast spells and rituals.{ }See {\ldblquote }Alchemists and Measures of Aethyr Salts{\rdblquote } below.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Determining Initial Magick Point Scores}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The following reference shows how to determine the {Magick} Point scores of beginning characters:\par 
\par 
\tab Hedgewizard, Wizard{\rquote }s Apprentice, Druid, Initiate, Alchemist{\rquote }s Apprentice, Runemaster\rquote s Apprentice, and any other spellcasting career*: 1d4+4 MP.\par 
\tab All other non-spellcasting careers: roll d100 and consult the following chart.\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tx2160\tqr\tx4320 \tab {\ul Roll\tab MP}\par 
\tab {01-50}\tab 3 MP\par 
\tab {51-75}\tab 4 MP\par 
\tab {76-90}\tab 5 MP\par 
\tab {91-96}\tab 6 MP\par 
\tab {97-99}\tab 7 MP\par 
\tab {00}\tab 8 MP\par 
\pard \qj \par 
* Any new or variant careers that include spellcasting abilities should also receive 1d4+4 MP.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Revised Academic Basic Career Chart}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab This chart replaces the Academic Basic Career Chart on {\ul WFRP}{, }page 18 for the purpose of determining a beginning character{\rquote }s basic career. Roll D100 according to character race{:}\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tx1080\tx1980\tx3060\tx4320 Human\tab Elf{\tab }Dwarf\tab Halfling\tab Career\par 
{01-05\tab 01-05\tab }01-10\tab 01-10\tab Alchemist{\rquote }s Apprentice\par 
06-10\tab 06-10\tab 11-15\tab 11-20\tab Artisan{\rquote }s Apprentice\par 
11-20\tab 11-20\tab  {\emdash }\tab  {\emdash }\tab Druid\par 
 {\emdash \tab } {\emdash \tab }16-30\tab  {\emdash }\tab Engineer\par 
21-25\tab  {\emdash \tab }31-35\tab 21-25\tab Exciseman\par 
26-30\tab 21-25\tab  {\emdash }\tab 26-35\tab Herbalist\par 
31-35\tab 26-30\tab  {\emdash }\tab  {\emdash }\tab Hypnotist\par 
36-55\tab 31-35\tab 36-45\tab 36-45\tab Initiate\par 
56-60\tab 36-40\tab 46-50\tab 46-55\tab Pharmacist\par 
61-65\tab 41-45\tab 51-55\tab 56-60\tab Physician{\rquote }s Student\par 
\emdash \tab \emdash \tab 56-70\tab \emdash \tab Runemaster\rquote s Apprentice\par 
66-70\tab 46-50\tab 71-75\tab 61-70\tab Scribe\par 
71-75\tab 51-55\tab 76-80\tab 71-75\tab Seer\par 
76-80\tab 56-60\tab 81-85\tab 76-80\tab Student\par 
81-85\tab 61-65\tab 86-95\tab 81-90\tab Trader\par 
86-95\tab 66-85\tab \emdash \tab 91-95\tab Hedgewizard\par 
96-00\tab 86-00\tab 96-00\tab 96-00\tab Wizard\rquote s Apprentice\par 
\pard \qj {\v \par 
[Include in character creation or other reference sheets. Replaces Academic Basic Career Chart, }{\v\ul WFRP}{\v  p. 18.]\par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Increasing Magick Point Scores}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab When characters graduate from Basic Careers (Hedgewizard, {Sorceror\rquote s} Apprentice, Alchemist{\rquote s}
 Apprentice) to Advanced Careers (War Wizard, Elementalist, Mentalist, Necromancer, Daemonologist, Alchemist), and as they graduate from one rank to another (i.e., from 1st Rank War Wizard to 2nd Rank War Wizard), their {Magick} Point scores increase.
\par 
\tab The following chart summarizes the increases in {magick} points earned by characters as they graduate from Basic Careers or to higher Ranks within an Advanced Career:\par 
\par 
\pard \qc {Magick} Point Increase Chart\par 
\pard \qj \tab \par 
\pard \qj\tx720\tx1260\tx6020 \tab Career Graduation\tab {Magick} points Gained\par 
\par 
\tab Humans and Elves:\par 
\tab From Hedgewizard or Sorceror\rquote s Apprentice\par 
\tab \tab to an Advanced Sorceror Career\tab 2d4+8 MP\par 
\tab To a Higher Rank within an Advanced\par 
\tab \tab Sorceror Career\tab 2d4+4 MP\par 
\tab From Alchemist\rquote s Apprentice\par 
\tab \tab to the Advanced Alchemist Career\tab no increase\par 
\tab To a Higher Rank within The Advanced\par 
\tab \tab Alchemist Career\tab no increase\par 
\par 
\tab Dwarves and Halflings:\par 
\tab From Hedgewizard or Sorceror\rquote s Apprentice\par 
\tab \tab to an Advanced Sorceror Career\tab 2d4+4 MP\par 
\tab To a Higher Rank within an Advanced\par 
\tab \tab Sorceror Career\tab 1d4+4 MP \par 
\tab From Alchemist\rquote s Apprentice\par 
\tab \tab to the Advanced Alchemist Career\tab no increase\par 
\tab To a Higher Rank within The Advanced\par 
\tab \tab Alchemist Career\tab no increase\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }GM Notes: As indicated in the chart, Dwarves and Halflings have limited potential for increasing their command of {magick}al powers, and therefore are typically less successful as sorcerors than Humans and Elves.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Basic {Magick} Point Scores on the WFRP Character Profile\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab For ease of reference, the character\rquote s BMP Score has been added to the Warhammer Character Profile. For example, here\rquote s the Standard Profile for a human:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s2\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 33\tab 25\tab 3\tab 3\tab 7\tab 30\tab 1 \tab 29\tab 29 \tab 29\tab 29\tab 29 \tab 29 \tab 3\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard \qj \tab As a sorceror or alchemist\rquote s BMP Score is increased by graduation to an Advanced Career or to a higher rank within an Advanced Career, record the increases on the character{'}s current Character Profile.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Recovering {Magick} Points}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Expending {Magick} Points only temporarily depletes a character\rquote s {magick}al reservoirs.\par 
\tab All characters naturally recover one MP per 24-hour period as their Spirits gradually absorb aethyrial energy from their surroundings.\par 
\tab All characters with the Meditation skill may recover {Magick} Points at a faster rate (see Skills, \ldblquote Meditation\rdblquote , page ??). 
Hedgewizards and Academic Apprentices learn this skill as one of the first steps in their sorcerous education.\par 
\tab All cult members in good standing may be restored to full BMP Score by worshipping for 24 hours upon sacred ground dedicated to their cult. (See {\ul Divine }{\ul Magick}, \ldblquote Layman\rquote s Benefits\rdblquote , page ??.)\par 
\tab Other {magick}al phenomena (i.e., {magick}al artifacts, divine miracles, power-tapping spells) may also restore expended {Magick} Points.\par 
\tab Note that no character may exceed his Basic {Magick} Point Score by any of these methods of recovering {magick} points, unless expressly stated otherwise in the rules, in rules supplements, or by the gamemaster\rquote s ruling.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s3\qc \b\f16\fs36 Sources of Sorcerous {Magick} Effects}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab The following sources of Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay {magick}al effects are treated in {\ul Realms of Sorcery}: spells, ritual{s}, enchanted artifacts, and alchemical compounds. The other main source of Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay {magick}al effects (
divine spells, rituals, and artifacts) is treated in the companion volume {\ul Divine }{\ul Magick}.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Spells and Rituals}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Spells and rituals are processes employing Word, Rune, and Mental Focus to shape arcane energy drawn from the Void or alchemical reagents into specific structured {magick} effects. 
The elaborate physical and aethyrial procedures of spell- and ritual-casting are designed to evoke an effective arcane utterance similar to the language of the gods, {\b lingua praestantia}.\par 
\tab Spells are simpler {magick}al effects, generally of more modest power and duration, which may be evoked and effected in a single game round. Spells generally require no more than a clear mind, an unhindered voice, and a single physical prop: 
the spellcaster{'}s focus, bearing the Rune of Wizardry and other runes associated with the spells he knows.\par 
\tab Rituals are relatively more complex {magick}al effects, typically of greater power and longer duration, which usually require several rounds for completion. Rituals often require a consumption of rare and expensive materials with {magick}
al properties, detailed and time-consuming preparations (i.e., censers, pentagrams, ritual arrangement and offerings of exotic wards and/or gifts, etc.), and precise execution of elaborate ritual gestures, posturings, and invocations.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Casting Spells and Rituals\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab To cast a spell or ritual, a spellcaster must possess the Cast Spell/Ritual skill matching the discipline and rank of the spell or ritual to be cast. He must know the spell or ritual (see \ldblquote 
Learning Spells and Rituals\rdblquote  below), and must expend the number of {Magick} Points required. He must also provide any necessary reagents or trappings required. {Magick} Points, reagents, and 
trappings required for each spell or ritual are listed in the spell or{ ritual descriptions in Chapter} {4, and} \ldblquote Scrolls\rdblquote {, Chapter 5, }for exceptions. Alchemists expend Measures of Aethyr Salt, rather than {Magick} Points (see below)
.\par 
\tab Casting a spell or ritual requires that the three Primary Disciplines: the Words, the Runes, and the Archetypes, be applied to the arcane energies used to produce {magick}al effects. As such, a caster
 must be able to speak the appropriate Words, must be in flesh contact with the appropriate Runes inscribed upon his focus, and must be able to mentally concentrate on the appropriate symbolic Archetypes. 
Anything which interferes with speaking the Words, touching the Runes, or concentrating on the Archetypes may prevent the casting of a spell or ritual.\par 
\tab While a spellcaster is casting a spell or ritual, he may perform no other action. During casting a spellcaster is considered to be {\b prone} for the purposes of attacks (i.e., hit automatically and double damage). 
If the casting is interrupted for any reason (i.e., if the caster is successfully attacked, or if he voluntarily interrupts a casting to parry a blow), the spell or ritual is spoiled, and no {magick}al effect is achieved, but the {Magick}
 Points for casting the spell or ritual are still expended in the failed attempt.\par 
\tab Casting a spell requires one round. Casting a ritual requires several rounds (typically 1d6+3). \par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note:{ }In some games it is possible to gain incremental increases in {magick}al benefits by casting a spell several times in a row and adding the bonuses as a sum.{ }This is commonly called \ldblquote spell-stacking
\rdblquote .{ }Spell-stacking is not permitted in Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay.\par 
\tab Example 1:{ }The Toughen Flesh spell increases the subject\rquote s Toughness by 1.{ }Casting two Toughen Flesh spells on a subject does not increase the subject\rquote s Toughness by 2{;} the subject\rquote 
s Toughness may only be increased by 1 point with this spell.\par 
\tab Example 2:{ }The Enchant Lesser Weapon Ritual gives a weapon a +1 bonus to damage for the duration of the {magick} effect.{ }Casting two Enchant Lesser Weapon Rituals upon a weapon does not give {the weapon a +2 bonus to damage;}
 a maximum of a +1 bonus to damage is possible with this ritual.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Initiative Penalty for Creating {Magick}{ effects}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Spell, ritual, and artifact {magick} effects occur within a round at their caster\rquote s (or activator\rquote s, in the case of an artifact) Initiative with a -30 penalty. That is, creating {magick} effects
 must be done carefully and deliberately, making spellcasters and users of {magick}al artifacts a little slower than those relying on purely physical actions.\par 
\tab In practice, this means that those without {magick}al resources have at least some chance to defend themselves when confronted in a melee by those with {magick}al abilities.\par 
\tab Example: Gruesome Gustave, a hapless adventurer, turns the corner and finds himself confronted by Harktnad Beastspawn, a professional spellcaster and Servant of Chaos.\par 
\tab Gus\rquote  Initiative is 30, Harktnad\rquote s Initiative is 45. Gus, a sitting duck for {magick}, is a dead man if Harktnad\rquote s spell gets him, but Harktnad can either cast the spel
l at Initiative 15, giving Gus a chance to bash him and spoil the spell, or Harktnad can whack at Gus with his staff, engaging Gus in a physical melee. 
Tough choice for Harktnad, but since Harktnad and his spellcasting abilities could murder Gus without getting his robe dirty, we don{'}t have much sympathy for Harktnad.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Risk of Casting Injury}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Certain spells present a risk of injury to the caster (see Chapter 4, \ldblquote Spell Descriptions and Reagents\rdblquote ). When the caster actually casts a spell, he must roll vs. Willpower to
 withstand the flow of energies (no roll is necessary if the casting is interrupted). If the roll is failed, the caster must roll on the table below, though the spell still goes off as intended. 
For each sorcerous disability the wizard already has, add 10 to the roll.\par 
\par 
\pard \qc Casting Injury Table\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard \qj\fi-1620\li1620\tx720\tqr\tx8640 \tab {\ul Roll\tab Casting Injury\tab }\par 
\pard \qj\fi-1620\li1620\tx720 \tab 01-25\tab Minor Injury. Caster has headaches, burst capillaries in nose, gums, ear, and soft tissues, and/or other minor symptoms. Lose 1 wound.\par 
\tab 26-50\tab Shock. Minor injury as above. Lose 1 wound. Serious long term mental and spiritual injury; gain 1 insanity point.\par 
\tab 51-75\tab Serious Injury. Caster suffers serious internal and external bleeding, and other dire injuries. Lose 1d3+1 wounds immediately.\par 
\tab 76-100\tab Subtle Trauma. No apparent immediate effects. Gain 1 disability point.  \par 
\tab 101-120\tab Traumatic Injury. Serious physical injuries; lose 1d3+1 wounds. Serious short and long term mental and physical effects. Gain 1 insanity point and 1 disability point.\par 
\tab 121+\tab Traumatic Shock. Gain 1d6 Disability points and 1d6 Insanity points.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Sorceror\rquote s Focus and Rune Engravings\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A sorceror\rquote s focus is a simple enchanted artifact carrying engravings of the sorceror\rquote s Identity and Wizardry runes, along with any runes for spells or rituals he knows. The sorceror\rquote 
s Identity rune must have been Powerlinked (see the {\i powerlink artifact} petty ritual description on page ??) with the sorceror, or the focus will not function. Without a functioning focus in hand, a sorceror cannot cast a spell or ritual.\par 
\tab Since the Runecraft skill is required to successfully engrave runes into a focus, a beginning hedgewizard or academic apprentice is assisted by a Second Rank sorceror (typically his master) in creating his first focus. 
This first focus is included in a beginning Hedgewizard or Academic Apprentice\rquote s trappings.\par 
\tab A sorceror may engage any Second Rank sorceror in creating extra focuses for the cost of 50 GC per focus. A beginning sorceror might also receive an extra focus as part of his trappings.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {Improvised Focus}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab If a sorceror\rquote s focus is stolen or destroyed, a sorceror with the Runecraft skill can make an improvised focus by carving the appropriate runes in any piece of wood. 
An improvised focus bears only the runes necessary for the casting of a single spell or ritual, and when that spell or ritual is cast for the first time, the {magick}al channeling potential of that improvised focus is exhausted, and may no longer serve
 as a focus. Carving the appropriate runes into an improvised focus requires 10 minutes; test vs. the sorceror\rquote s Runecraft skill. If failed, the rune carvings are discovered to be flawed, and the improvised focus is useless. 
If passed, the improvised focus is suitable for the casting of the single spell or ritual for which runes have been carved into it.\par 
\tab A sorceror without the Runecraft skill does know the Identity rune of a casting, and has some chance of properly executing it on an improvised focus, but also has a good chance of botching the engraving,
 and is likely not to recognize when the engraving is botched. Test vs. the sorceror\rquote s Dexterity -20. If failed, the carvings are discovered to be flawed. 
If failed by 30 points or more, the flaws in the engraving are not recognized, and using the focus may result in a Major Disaster{\v  (se}{\v e chart in Runemastery, page ??}{\v )}{.}\par 
{\v \par 
[[Brief explanations and examples of runes here or above? Or as a facing single-page layout? Envision "Basic Concepts of Runes in Spell and Ritual Castings?" (the sample layout with text and runes) as a boxed text, or a facing page.]] \par 
}\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Reagents and Trappings in Spell and Ritual Castings}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Reagents are required for casting spells and rituals. Requirements for reagents are listed in the spell and ritual descriptions. For further details, see \ldblquote Alchemical Reagents\rdblquote  below.\par 
\tab Rituals often involve special trappings, some requiring laborious design and manufacture, others using exotic and expensive components. Without these special trappings, the ritual often cannot be completed, or may involve increased risk. 
Requirements for ritual trappings are listed in \ldblquote Notes\rdblquote  in the ritual descriptions.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Targeting Spells}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Before casting a spell, the caster must specify the subject or location where the {magick}al effect is targeted. Each spell description indicates the type of area of effect for that spell.\par 
\tab To accurately target a spell\rquote s effects, a caster must {be able to }see the target with normal vision, or through some form of {magick}al sight.\par 
\tab If the target can be seen, it is hit automatically. Unlike missile combat, sorcerous combat is not affected by marksmanship.\par 
\tab If the target cannot be seen, the Gamemaster considers the circumstances, then determines the location of a spell\rquote s area of effect at his discretion. 
For example, if a spell is cast in total darkness, the Gamemaster may decide that any one of a number of potential victims may have been struck, and determine the target randomly, or he may decide that the spell may have missed all possible targets, and ha
d no effect.\par 
\tab Spells may not be cast at a target unless line-of-sight can be drawn to the target. If any object, surface, or character intervenes, that object, surface, or character blocks the casting of a spell.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note:{ }Certain spells, such as {\i perceive spirit}, are exceptions to this rule.{ }All such exceptions are indicated in the spell descriptions.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Weak {Magick} Potential and Casting Failure}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sorcerors with weak {magick} potential, or {magick} potential reduced by expenditure of {magick} points, are less able to effectively focus their arcane energies into the casting of a spell or ritual.\par 
\tab Sorcerors with Current {Magick} Point scores of 5 or less must test for Casting Failure when they attempt to cast a spell or ritual. Roll 1d6 and compare the number with the sorceror\rquote s Current {Magick} Point score.\par 
\tab If the die roll is equal to or less than the sorceror\rquote s CMP, the spell or ritual is cast successfully.\par 
\tab If the die roll is greater than the sorceror\rquote s CMP, the spell or ritual is spoiled by a Casting Failure. The casting fails, producing no {magick} effect whatsoever, but the {Magick} Points
 and reagents required for the spell or ritual are lost nonetheless.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Spellcasters and Armor}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The wearing of leather, metal, or other types of armor and the carrying of shields has been demonstrated to interfere with efficient transmission of {magick}
al energy in the spell and ritual casting process. Consequently, spellcasters generally do not wear armor or carry shields.\par 
\tab Spellcasters who wear armor may not use the Meditation skill or Restore Power spells to recover MP.\par 
\tab Further, the cost for casting spells and rituals is higher if the caster wears armor. Each point of armor worn by a character (regardless if the point is earned by wearing armor or by carrying a shield) adds two to the MP required to cast the spell.
\par 
\tab Example: A spellcaster wearing 2 points of armor on the body, 2 points of armor for each leg, and carrying a shield for 1 point, would need to expend 14 additional MP for each spell or ritual he attempted to cast.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note: Results of research attempting to explain this phenomenon have been contradictory and inconclusive.{ }Current arcane thought suggests that this may b{e a Special Law of the Universes}
, possibly a relic of the designs of the Great Powers who created the Universes.{ }Chaos sorcerors wear armor without penalty{,} apparently an exceptional divine gift from their patron daemon powers.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Alchemical Reagents}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Alchemical reagents are essential trappings in two processes of sorcerous {magick}: 1. as components in sorcerous spells, rituals, and enchantments, and 2. as components in alchemical compounds.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Reagents in Spells, Rituals, and Enchantments}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab In spells, rituals, and enchantments, alchemical reagents are necessary catalytic elements in the production of {magick}al effects. Typically the {magick}
al properties of the substance enhance the symbolic virtues of the substance, facilitating communication and correspondence between the runic, verbal, and mental disciplines of the casting.\par 
\tab In most cases the reagent is applied to the focus in such a way that the runes carved on the focus, the reagent, and the hand of the caster are in contact. 
In many rituals the reagent is burned in a brazier or candle, producing a smoke that envelopes the caster, focus, and any other ritual trappings (such as inscribed forms like pentagrams, or objects or creatures to be enchanted). I
n any case, the reagent is consumed in the casting, leaving behind a small deposit of grey ash or tarry gum.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {Common Reagents}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Most spells, rituals, and enchantments require Common Reagents that are easily obtained and inexpensive. Neither the players nor gamemaster need to keep track of these Common Reagents during play. 
Sorceror and Alchemist Characters are assumed to be able to obtain and afford these materials as easily as they obtain fresh vegetables and bootlaces. 
No bookkeeping is necessary for these Common Reagents, though they may be listed in spell, ritual, and enchantment descriptions for narrative color. \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Extraordin{ary and True Elemental Reagents}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Some rituals and enchantments require special, rare, and expensive Extraordinary or True Elemental Reagents. Players and gamemasters must keep track of these Extraordinary and True Elemental Reagents during play. 
Sorceror and Alchemist Player Characters may obtain these Extraordinary and True Elemental Reagents only with the gamemaster\rquote s approval, and only when the character has located a source of the reagent, and has paid for or manufactured the reagent. 
Two methods of bookkeeping for Extraordinary and True Elemental reagents are suggested:\par 
\tab {\ul Recording supplies of Extraordinary and True Elemental Reagents on the Player Character Sheet}. Extraordinary and True Elemental Reagents are listed on the Character Sheet just like other scarce and consumable resources like money. 
This is a simple, but slightly uncool method, since players have a disturbing habit of forgetting to record the expenditure of scarce and consumable resources, and gamemasters are usually too busy and trusting to enthusiastically supervise
 such bookkeeping tasks.\par 
\tab {\ul Distribution and Collection of Reagent Chits}: The gamemaster distributes Reagent Chits when Extraordinary and True Elemental Reagents are located and paid for, and collects the Chits whenever a ritual requiring their use is cast. 
This is a simple and really cool method, since it makes the process of obtaining and expending reagents more tangible and real, and since it is a fair and reliable method of bookkeeping. 
Also, gamemasters with energy and imagination can make homemade Reagent Chits look really cool.\par 
\tab Reagent Chits should list the Reagent it represents (i.e., Eye of Basilisk Powder, Troll Bile Extract, Fugacious Earth) and the number of Measures of the Reagent the chit represents (i.e., 4 Measures). 
The gamemaster should mark off measures as they are used by the player, and when the last measure is used, the chit should be destroyed. Alternatively the GM may assume each chit represents a single Measure of the reagent, and should reclaim
 the chit when the character casts the ritual.\par 
\pard \qj \tab Roleplaying Note: Including these reagents in your roleplaying presentations is good theater, and helps reinforce the atmospheric settings that support swell {magick}al fantasy play.\par 
\tab Lame Roleplaying: Player: \ldblquote Chappella is preparing a Discorporate Flesh spell.\rdblquote \par 
\tab Cool Roleplaying: Player: \ldblquote Chappella reaches into her tunic, pulls out a couple of small bags, selects one, opens it, and takes out a small pinch of grey ash. She rubs the grey ash on her focus; Kepler, you\rquote re a wizard, and st
anding right there, so you can probably see she\rquote s rubbing the ash on the Discorporate Flesh runes, and you can guess the ash is Calcinated Flesh, the reagent for that spell.\rdblquote \par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Reagents as Compound Components}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Alchemical reagents are essential components in the {magick}al alchemical compounds produced by alchemists. Reagents are combined by a variety of methods and operations specified by a compound\rquote 
s formula; the alchemist must know the compound\rquote s formula in order to make the compound. Unless otherwise specified in the Alchemical Compound {d}escription{s} (see {Chapter 5}
), the trappings required for preparing a compound are assumed to be included in the trappings obtained by an alchemist as a benefit of his career.\par 
\tab The Alchemical Compound Description also lists the Extraordinary and True Elemental Reagents required to produce one measure of the alchemical compound; the formula\rquote 
s requirement for Common Reagents is assumed, and need not be accounted for in play. 
An alchemist is assumed to have an ample supply of common reagents whenever he has his alchemical apparatus at hand, since common reagents are relatively inexpensive and negligible in bulk and weight.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Alchemist Spells and Rituals}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Alchemists and Measures of Aethyr Salt (MAS)}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Alchemists use measures of aethyr salts (MAS), not {magick} points, to power spells and rituals. Like sorcerors, alchemists use Word, Rune, and Mental Focus in spells and rituals to produce specific structured {magick}
 effects; however, unlike sorcerors, alchemists do not draw {magick}al energy from the Void to power their spell and ritual effects. Instead, alchemists release {magick}al energy from aethyr compounds derived from various earthly and arcane substances.
\par 
\tab The compound containing the {magick}al energy is called \ldblquote Aethyr Salt\rdblquote {,} and is an Extraordinary Reagent refinable from a wide variety of organic and elemental substances with {magick}al properties. One Measure of Aethyr Salt (1 
MAS) produces {magick}al energy equivalent to one {Magick} Point (1 MP).\par 
\tab {I}n alchemical terms, aethyr salt is prima materia locked in neutral matrix, typically in the refined flesh, fluid, or ash of a {magick}al creature or, in a rare earth or noble metal.{ }
When heated in a crucible, the neutral matrix is destroyed, leaving a fine, dry powder, and the aethyr{ is released into the casting.}\par 
\tab When an alchemist casts a spell or ritual, a number of Measures of Aethyr Salt is consumed equal to the number of {Magick} points required by the spell or ritual. Since a Measure of Aethyr Salt costs 5 
GC to purchase, casting spells and rituals may be an expensive proposition for an Alchemist. However, aethyr salt is produced in abundance as a by-product of many alchemical operations performed by Maste
r, Select, and Grand Alchemists, and is therefore much less expensive for them: 1GC per Measure of Aethyr Salt. (See the \ldblquote Reagent Inventory Table\rdblquote  on page ??.)\par 
\tab Thus, alchemist players do not keep track of {Magick} Points expended for spells and rituals during a session, but must instead keep track of Measures of Aethyr Salts consumed. Note also that while sorcerors regain their {magick}
al energy stores by meditation and sleep, alchemists do not regain energy expended for spells or rituals except by purchasing or manufacturing more Measures of Aethyr Salt. Spell and ritual casting, however, is only a minor facet of an alchemist{'}s {
magick}al abilities.{ }The bulk of an alchemist\rquote s {magick}al powers come from the use of the various alchemical compounds he produces.{ }(See \ldblquote Alchemist Careers\rdblquote {,} page ??.)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Alchemist\rquote s Focus}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The alchemist\rquote s focus is his Arcane Crucible. An alchemist will have many different crucibles for preparing reagents and compounds. Th
e Arcane Crucible is unlike these other mundane crucibles in that it is enchanted, and in that it is used by the alchemist to cast spells.\par 
\tab The Arcane Crucible is typically a pot-like container made of carefully refined and skillfully worked metals about six to twelve inches in diameter and about six inches high. 
The exterior and interior of the crucible are marked with the esoteric symbols and inscriptions of alchemical lore; also, any runes necessary for casting spells and rituals are inlaid in silver and gold on the surface of the crucible.\par 
\tab To cast a spell or ritual, the alchemist combines the proper number of Measures of Aethyr Salt equal to the MP cost of the spell or ritual along with any other necessary components. The Arcane Crucible must then be heated over a flame to combine the
 components, thus releasing the necessary {magick}al energy, as the alchemist concentrates on the Word, Rune, and Mental Focus associated with the spell or ritual. This process takes 1d6+3 rounds (the same number of rounds 
required for a sorceror to cast a ritual), whereupon the spell or ritual {magick} effect is produced, just as if it were produced by a sorceror.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Runemaster Spells and Rituals}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Invoking Inscriptions\par 
\pard\plain \qj\fi720 \f16\fs20 Inscriptions are stored either on portable Tokens, or on immobile surfaces in the Static form (see below). 
Static Inscriptions are those which have been inscribed on some permanent surface, such as a wall, floor, or workbench. Tokens are those which have been inscribed on something portable, such as a handheld runestone or warhammer.\par 
To invoke an Inscription of either sort, the Runemaster must have prepared the Inscription himself and charged the Blacksilver for use. Magick Points must of course be expended for use of an Invocation. 
Reagents are blended into the Blacksilver at time of inscription, and thus are not needed at time of Invocation.\par 
Invoking an Inscription simply requires that it be within a certain range from the caster, that the Blacksilver be charged, and that the Runemaster has the Magick Points to spend. 
Tokens and Identity Runes must be held by the Runemaster for invocation.  Static Runes may be invoked whenever the Runemaster is within BMP yards of the inscription. Anything which moves either the 
Inscription or the Runemaster during the process of invocation will disrupt it.\par 
Invoking Inscriptions is otherwise subject to the same restrictions as for casting spells directly.\par 
Once the Inscription has been invoked, the Blacksilver becomes deactivated, and the rune must be activated again with {\i catalyze blacksilver} before it can be reused\par 
Because a primary component of any Inscription is the inscriber\rquote s Identity Rune, one Runemaster may not use another\rquote s Inscriptions. This restriction can be lifted temporarily through use of the {\i subsume identity} spell.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Creating Inscriptions}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj\fi720 \f16\fs20 Ritual Inscriptions must be inscribed on an indisputably static surface, such as a wall or floor. Both types have their advantages: tokens are portable, but a Runemaster typically does not have to worry about l
osing a Static Inscription. Inscriptions placed on items such as chairs will normally function as Static Inscriptions, but can act as a Token if the need arises.\par 
Virtually any durable surface may be used for an Inscription. 
In addition to the wood and stone surfaces Sorcerors typically inscribe runes upon, a Runemaster with the appropriate skill may Inscribe on wood, stone, most metals, and even viscous surfaces such as air and water. 
The surface must be at least half an inch thick. Viscous surfaces must be kept steady with the {\i stabilize surface} spell; others (such as sand) may also required it.\par 
Certain size and surface restrictions must be met for an Inscription to be placed on a given surface. The Runemaster must know the appropriate Inscribe Runes spell for the surface being used, and the surface must be suitable for inscription. 
Inscriptions take up a fair amount of space, since they combine the spell and Identity runes. Spell Inscriptions require 2 square inches per Level, 1 square inch for Petty Inscriptions
, with a half-inch border (for example, a Level 1 Inscription requires a total space of 3 inches by 2 inches, after border).  Ritual Inscriptions require 2 square feet per level, one square inch for Rituals Petty, and a half foot border. 
This space is sufficient to accommodate the Inscription and give it a defined border on the surface. Spell Runes are rectangular at a 2:1 height to width ratio; Form Runes of are the expected shape, or rectangular for Cages, Guards, and Wards.\par 
Inscriptions may not share borders with any other Inscription, and this must be taken into account if two Inscriptions are to be inscribed on the same surface.\par 
Two parts go into the making of an Inscription: the actual etching of the Rune, and the inlaying of Blacksilver.\par 
Etching the Rune requires the use of appropriate Inscribing Tools. These Tools are long, thin pieces of metal similar to 
lockpicks; they must be made of metal at least as tough as iron, though the Runemaster may choose a stronger material as a guard against breakage. The surface to be inscribed upon must be kept reasonably stable. 
The process of merging Identity Rune and Spell Rune, which must be repeated for each Inscription, and the process of etching the Rune into the surface, takes 10 minutes per Level, 5 minutes for Inscriptions Petty. 
This time is halved for a wooden surface, doubled (at least) for a viscous surface.\par 
Once the rune has been carved, it must be inlaid with Blacksilver. Blacksilver is a minor alchemical compound consisting mostly of silver and trace elements of certain Noble Metals, and costs 1 GC per measure. 
Exact amounts of silver and other materials consumed are largely irrelevant and will make little to no difference assuming the materials are readily available. The Blacksilver can be prepared in advance of the inscribing proces
s, but the Runemaster must roll vs. his Intelligence every hour, or the Blacksilver separates and becomes unusable. One measure of Blacksilver must be used for each Level of the Inscription, one measure for Inscriptions Petty.\par 
The mixing of Blacksilver involves melting down the Blacksilver itself, adding one or two minor alchemical ingredients to facilitate channeling of the Aethyr, and allowing it to cool down to the texture of gum arabic before inlaying. Additionally, any 
reagents the Inscription requires must be blended into the Blacksilver while it is molten. Only one measure of reagent need be used, regardless of the Inscription\rquote s Level. 
However, if the Inscription is to allow extended duration, one extra measure of reagent must be included per allowable extension. Note that the reagents must be broken down into a form where they can be mixed into a liquid, which can be 
problematic in some cases.\par 
The inlaying process takes five minutes per Level, two minutes for Inscriptions Petty. Once the Blacksilver has been inlaid, and the Runemaster must activate it with {\i powerlink artifact}. It is then ready for use.
 The Blacksilver will only remain active for one week, at which point it must be recatalyzed.\par 
Just as alchemical preparations wear out if stored long enough, so do Inscriptions fray if used often enough. When an Inscription is created, its quality must be determined. The base Quality is equal to the Runemaster\rquote s Intelligence
; for every doubling of the etching time, this quality is increased by 10%, up to +30%. By the same token, the Runemaster may skimp on time for a Quality penalty; the etching and/or inlaying times may be halved for a -15% penalty each.\par 
Each time an Inscription is invoked, the Invoker must roll d100 against its Quality (half Quality if the Inscription is being invoked through {\i subsume identity}). If the roll is equal to or less than the modified Quality, the Inscription
 can be used again. If the roll is greater than the Quality, the Inscription has frayed, and must be repaired before it may be used again.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 CornerRunes}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj\fi720 \f16\fs20 CornerRunes are a special kind of Rune. There are six CornerRunes, one for each of what Runemasters consider to be the elements: Earth, Air, Fire, Water, Aethyr, and Void. Learning to incorporate
 a CornerRune requires following the usual procedure for learning spells, except that they require 100 EP to learn, not 50 EP.
 Once a CornerRune is learned, it may be used with any appropriate casting; it does not have to be learned for each spell the Runemaster knows.\par 
Rather than being representative of spells in their own right, they channel Elemental forces through an Inscription to enhance its underlying magickal structures. Each Invocation has a certain CornerRune which can increase its power (see t
he Spell Descriptions); if a CornerRune is added to an Inscription, the Inscription\rquote s Quality Rating is increased by +10%.\par 
CornerRunes add 2 square inches to the area of Inscriptions, whether Spell or Ritual, regardless of the Inscription\rquote s level.\par 
All the form Rituals list Void as being the appropriate CornerRune; this is only for the form\rquote s Inscription. 
A Void CornerRune added to a form will only help the form and not the embedded Inscriptions, and each Inscription must contain its own CornerRune, if such is desired.\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Enchanted Artifacts}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sorcerors and alchemists can create {magick}al artifacts which produce a variety of {magick}al effects. 
Many enchanted artifacts can be used by any intelligent creature, though the enchanted artifact must be linked to the user with the {\i powerlink artifact} spell (see page ??). Usually enchanted artifacts draw arcane energies from their users to produce {
magick}al effects, though some enchanted artifacts provide their own arcane energies. For descriptions of {magick}al artifacts, see \ldblquote {Sorcerous} Artifacts\rdblquote {, Chapter 5}.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Alchemical Compounds}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Alchemists can prepare alchemical compounds which produce a variety of {magick}al effects. Most alchemical compounds can be used by any intelligent creature. 
Further, alchemical compounds do not need to be linked to their users, since reagents in the compound itself provide the arcane energy to produce the {magick}al effect. For descriptions of alchemical compounds, see \ldblquote Alchemical Compounds
\rdblquote {,} page ??.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Disrupting or Dispelling {Magick} Effects}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab A sorceror or alchemist who knows a spell or ritual can disrupt or dispel its {magick}al effects by reversing the casting of the spell or ritual. 
Reversing a casting requires the same time, ingredients, trappings, expenditure of MP, and procedures as a normal casting. Reversing a spell or ritual ends the duration of the spell or ritual it reverses; it does not remove any physical, mental, or {
magick}al effects on its victims or environment, nor does it banish any beings summoned by such {magick}.\par 
\tab A caster can terminate his own spell or ritual\rquote s duration at any time by an act of will.\par 
\tab Disrupting or dispelling the {magick}al effects of an enchanted artifact requires destruction of the rune inscription bearing the artifact\rquote s enchantment. Rune inscriptions have a Toughness of 10 and 15 damage points f
or resisting structural damage.\par 
\tab {Magick}al effects produced by alchemical compounds cannot be disrupted or dispelled by sorcerous or alchemical means.\par 
\tab Divine {magick}s or {magick}al effects produced by inherent {magick}al talents, such as the {magick}al abilities of various undead, daemons, and elementals, cannot be disrupted or dispelled by sorcerous or alchemical means.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Resisting {Magick}al Effects}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Certain {magick}al attacks and other effects can be resisted by a victim. Spell, ritual, enchanted artifact, and alchemical compound descriptions indicate which {magick} effects may or may not be resisted.\par 
\tab If a resistance test is permitted, the victim tests vs. Will Power to avoid the undesirable {magick}al effects. A successful test vs. Will Power means the character has resisted the {magick}. A failed test means the {magick} takes effect normally.
\par 
\tab Characters with the Resist {Magick} skill receive a +20 bonus to tests vs. Will Power to resist {magick}al effects.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Who May Resist {Magick}al Effects}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Resisting {magick}al effects is a benefit of membership in a cult. Characters who are not members of a cult, or whose cult benefits have been lost for any reason, may not resist {magick}al effects.\par 
\tab Most animals, beasts, plants, and unintelligent creatures resist {magick} as a benefit of the divine power Earth Mother. Most monstrous creatures resist {magick} as a benefit of their divine creators or patrons.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note:{ }Only divine power can confer the miraculous benefit of resistance to {magick} effects.{ }Cult Membership is described in {\ul Divine }{\ul Magick}.{ }
GMs should assume that all intelligent WFRP characters are cult members, unless otherwise specified, since worship of divine powers is a pervasive element of primitive and civilized societies in Warhammer World.{ }
Likewise, all creatures should be assumed to be under the protection of the Earth Mother, or some other divine being, and therefore entitled to resist {magick} effects, unless otherwise specified.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Modifying {Magick}al Resistance Tests\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sorcerors may expend extra MP to reduce a victim\rquote s resistance to a {magick}al attack. The player must state his intent to do so before the dice are rolled for the WP test. For each MP spent, over and above the spell
\rquote s MP cost and point costs for armor worn, the victim\rquote s Will Power is reduced by 5 points for the purposes of the Resist {Magick} test. In the case of a {magick}
al effect threatening more than one victim, the spellcaster may reduce the Will Power of some or all of the victims, provided that additional {magick} points are expended for {\b each} victim.\par 
\tab Victims of {magick}al attacks may expend MP to improve their chances of making a successful Resist {Magick} test. For each MP spent, Will Power is increased for the purposes of the test. Player
s must decide how many MP are to be expended in this way before the roll of the dice.\par 
\tab Usually players may simply announce that their characters are spending additional MP to modify Resist {Magick} tests. 
However, where two player characters are involved, one the victim increasing his resistance, the other an attacker decreasing the victim{'}s resistance, the player must inform the GM how many MP they are spending in secret, and before
 the roll of the dice.\par 
\par 
{\b\fs28 \par 
}\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {Testing to Detect Manifested Illusions}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Characters who suspect they are viewing an illusion may use one of the following three testing procedures. A successful test means the character is convinced that he is viewing an illusion. 
A failed test means the character cannot find any evidence that he is viewing an illusion; he still may be skeptical, and may act accordingly. 
Suggested modifiers for each of the three different tests are given in many of the illusion spell and ritual descriptions.\par 
\tab Visual Test: Visual observation only. The character looks for visual faults or implausible details that reveal the presence of an illusion.\par 
\tab Remote Physical Test: The character successfully hits the suspected illusion with a missile attack (i.e., throws a rock, or shoots an arrow). Plausibly simulating the interaction of an external object and a manifested il
lusion is extremely difficult, even for the finest illusionist; such a test greatly increases the chance that an observer will detect the illusion.\par 
\tab Touch Test: Touching a suspected illusion almost always reveals its illusory nature, except with illusions of the highest mastery level (e.g., {\i manifest phantasm}).\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {Illusions in Melee\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Characters and creatures who suspect they are in melee with an illusion may always employ a Visual Test to discern an illusion. A character must make a successful BS test as an attack (e.g., a thrown
 weapon attack) to employ a Remote Physical Test for illusion while in melee. A character must make a successful WS test as an attack to employ a Touch Test for illusion while in melee.\par 
\tab Characters and creatures who do not suspect they are in melee with an illusion (typically dopey NPC cannon fodder, but occasionally PCs upon whom the GM has successfully pulled a fast one) do not make Visual Tests. 
They may be permitted a Remote Physical Test {\b if} they successfully score a BS attack {\b and} if they successfully make an Intelligence test to notice that something was fishy about the way the missile behaved when it struck the target. 
They may be permitted a Touch Test {\b if} they successfully score a WS attack {\b and} if they successfully make an Intelligence test to notice that something was fishy about the way the target reacted and the way the attack felt when it landed.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {Bonuses and Penalties to Tests to Discern Illusions\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab At the GM\rquote s discretion, tests to discern illusions may be modified according to 
complexity of illusion, circumstances and setting, and rehearsal by the caster. To discourage undignified pleading and rule-lawyering, avoid applying such modifiers in combat situations.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Career Advancement}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Many sorceror and alchemist careers are Advanced Careers. Characters may not enter these Advanced Careers without mastering the necessary Prerequisite Career. 
Prerequisite Careers for each Advanced Sorceror and Alchemist Career are listed in Chapter 3, \ldblquote Careers\rdblquote {,} pages ??-??. Mastering a Prerequisite Career requires that the character have:\par 
\tab \bullet  Taken all the available advances from the Prerequisite Career at a normal cost in Experience Points.\par 
\tab \bullet  Taken all the available skills from the Prerequisite Career at a normal cost in Experience Points.\par 
\tab \bullet  Learned at least four of the spells and rituals available from the Prerequisite Career at a normal cost in Experience Points.\par 
\par 
\tab The Experience Point Cost for entering Advanced Careers increases according to the Mastery Level of the Career. The following table lists the EP Cost for entering Advanced Careers at the various Mastery Levels:\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tx1080\tx4680 \tab {\ul Mastery Level}\tab {\ul EP Cost}\par 
\tab Apprentice/Hedgewizard\tab 100\par 
\tab Level 1\tab 200\par 
\tab Level 2\tab 400\par 
\tab Level 3\tab 600\par 
\tab Level 4\tab 800\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Learning Spells and Rituals}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Sorcerors and alchemists must know spells and rituals in order to cast them. (Exceptions: Characters may be able to cast spells and rituals using scrolls or {magick}al devices. See \ldblquote Compounds and Scrolls\rdblquote 
, page ??.)\par 
\tab To know a spell or ritual, a character must have learned
 the casting according to the following rules, with the following exceptions: characters taking Hedgewizard or Academic Apprentice as their Initial Careers receive a number of castings during Character Creation. 
These castings are learned without Experience Point Cost. (See \ldblquote Careers\rdblquote {,} page ??.)\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab GM Note: }In addition, sorcerors of 3rd and 4th level and alchemists of 4th level learn how to enchant {sorcerous} artifacts.{ See }\ldblquote {Magick}{ Artifacts}\rdblquote {, page ??.}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Learning New Spells and Rituals\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Four conditions must be met before a casting is learned:\par 
\tab The sorceror\rquote s or alchemist\rquote s level must equal or exceed the level of the casting to be learned. A sorceror or alchemist cannot learn a casting of a higher level than the level he has achieved. (Exception: See below, \ldblquote 
Hedgewizards\rdblquote {,} \ldblquote Learning New Spells and Rituals (Optional Rule).\rdblquote )\par 
\tab The sorceror or alchemist must have access to a reliable copy of the casting or must learn the casting from another sorceror or alchemist. Most sorcerors and alchemists learn castings from academic texts, from a tutor\rquote 
s private notes, or from scrolls. Illiterate hedgewizards must memorize castings from a tutor\rquote s recitation. The sorceror or alchemist must then spend time studying and practicing the casting.\par 
\tab The time spent learning, studying, and practicing the casting is normally not reflected in game time. Instead, the time and effort spent to learn the casting is abstracted as a expenditure of Experience Points. 
Learning a casting costs 50 Experience Points.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Restrictions on Learning Castings}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Characters may not learn new castings unless their current career is a sorceror or alchemist career. 
Characters who have once completed a sorceror or alchemist career, but who have gone on to another vocation, still have the skills to cast spells and rituals, but have not committed the time necessary to continue their education. 
They may at any time spend the necessary EP to return to a previous sorceror or alchemist career, where they may again learn castings.
  It is possible to learn castings from an earlier career if in a sorceror or alchemist career (thus a Rank 3 War Wizard could learn a Rank 1 casting).\par 
\tab Sorcerors and alchemists are not limited in the number of castings they may know at any one time.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Sources for {Learning New Spells and Rituals}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab {\ul From a Master or Mentor}: Traditionally hedgewizards and apprentice spellcasters learned most of their castings from their masters. Illiterate hedgewizards still learn this way, through oral instruction. 
In smaller communities and towns apprenticeships are still common, though the student often learns from his master\rquote s library as much as through oral instruction. Payment for the
 privilege of learning castings is in terms of service to the master, and is reflected in part of the Experience Points spent to learn the casting.\par 
\tab {\ul From Other Spellcasters Paid as Tutors}: Professional and academic spellcasters may hire the services of another spellcaster to teach a new spell. 
The tutor may personally instruct his client in the new casting, or may simply permit access to a library or personal notes concerning the casting to be learned. The cost of this service varies greatly with the circumstances and the status of the tutor. 
Instruction in petty castings runs between 25-50 GC. Instruction in more complex castings costs 50-200 GC per Mastery Level.\par 
\tab {\ul From Academy and Guild Libraries}: Members of academies and guilds are entitled to use the libraries free of charge. Many common petty castings are available from these libraries. 
Castings of Advanced Careers tend to be available only from private tutors, and at a fair price, though academy and guild fellows generally charge a minimum fee of 50 GC.\par 
\tab {\ul From Scrolls, Grimoires, and Other Written Sources}: Written copies of castings may be obtained in various ways: through academies and guilds, from private sorceror-scribes, from pawnshops and black market
 fences, through theft, from ancient tombs, etc. From respectable sources, the cost of written copies is similar to the cost of a tutor. Copies from less respectable sources may be much cheaper, and much less reliable.\par 
\tab {\ul From Daemons and Other\~}{\ul Magick}{\ul al Beings}: Daemons are remarkably knowledgeable sources of obscure and unusual castings. Their prices are rather steep, often eccentric, and usually in terms of doubtful morality.\par 
\tab {\ul From }{\ul Magick}{\ul al Devices}: Some devices can teach their owners castings. In many cases the device grants knowledge of the casting only so long as the device remains in the possession of the spellcaster.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 {\v {\tc\tcl3\pard\plain \s6\qj \f16 Hedgewizards\:{ }Learning New Spel{ls and Rituals (Optional Rule)}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Hedgewizards may learn any sorcerous spell or ritual, regardless of the casting\rquote s discipline or level. 
As such, hedgewizards may learn any spell and ritual of the War Wizard, Elementalist, Illusionist, Daemonologist, and Necromancer disciplines, no matter the level of the casting. The only restrictions are that the hedgewizard must
 find a sorceror that knows the casting, and who is willing to teach him the casting, and that the hedgewizard spend the necessary time to learn, study, and practice the casting (reflected in the expenditure of Experience Points as listed on the table belo
w).\par 
\tab The following table shows the number of experience points that must be expended to learn a single casting at various mastery levels.\par 
\par 
\pard \qj\tx720\tx4500 \tab {\ul Casting}{\ul \rquote }{\ul s Mastery Level}\tab {\ul Experience Point Cost}\par 
\tab Petty\tab 50 EP\par 
\tab 1st Level\tab 200 EP\par 
\tab 2nd Level\tab 400 EP\par 
\tab 3rd Level\tab 600 EP\par 
\tab 4th Level\tab 800 EP\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note:{ }We recommend GMs introduce this rule for NPC hedgewizards initially, then extend its use to player characters on an occasional basis with the GM{'}s approval only.\par 
\tab This rule encourages the creation of hedgewizards with strange and unpredictable mix of spells and rituals.{ }
In game terms, the high experience point cost of learning each spell, and the loss of benefits obtained by taking advanced careers, makes this a less-than-cost effective method of building a powerful sorceror character.{ }
On the other hand, the benefits of custom-tailoring a character{'}s spells and rituals can be an exciting element in character design and roleplaying.\par 
\tab In the civilized Old World, the hedgewizard is an archaic figure, an out{dated} eccentric unable to match the superior training and technique of academy-instructed sorcerors.{ }
However, on the frontier and in the wilderness, a hedgewizard with a small but unusual selection of castings may be more than a match for the narrowly{ }defined talents of an academic sorceror.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Learning Alchemical Formulae}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab To manufacture an alchemical compound, an alchemist must possess the Prepare Compound skill matching the rank of the alchemical compound to be prepared. 
He must know the alchemical formula and have access to alchemical apparatus and necessary reagents (as described in \ldblquote Alchemical Compounds\rdblquote {,} page ??). To know an 
alchemical formula, a character must have learned the formula according to the following rules, with the following exception: characters taking the Alchemist\rquote 
s Apprentice Basic Career as their Initial career receive a number of alchemical formulae during Character Creation. These recipes are learned without Experience Point cost.\par 
\tab The following conditions must be met before an alchemical formula is learned:\par 
\tab The alchemist must have access to a reliable copy of the formula or must learn the formula from another alchemist.\par 
\tab The time spent learning, studying, and perfecting technique with a formula is normally not reflected in game time. 
Instead, the time and effort spent to learn the formula is abstracted as a expenditure of Experience Points. Learning a formula costs 50 Experience Points.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Instability}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Certain {magick}al creatures (e.g., daemons, elementals, certain types of undead) do not manifest normally in the Material Realm. These beings n
ormally exist in the Chaos realm, and manifest in the Material Realm only through summoning by sorcerors or worshippers, or through natural or artificial Portals between the Material Realm and the Chaos Realm.\par 
\tab When manifesting in the Material Realm, these {magick}al creatures must assume a material form. The substance of this material form is created from aethyrial energy drawn from the Chaos Realm through the creature\rquote s animus.\par 
\tab When these {magick}al creatures first enter the Material Realm they are vulnerable to fluxes in the aethyr of the Chaos Realm. These fluxes may cause great variations in the aethyr energies available through the creature\rquote 
s animus, or may sever the animus altogether, leaving the creature\rquote s material form without energy to sustain it.\par 
\tab The period when a {magick}al creature is vulnerable to aethyr flux is called the Period of Instability. During this period a creature subject to Instability is said to be Unstable. A creature which has survived the Period of I
nstability, and whose animus has become secure against aethyr fluxes, is said to be Stable, or to have Stabilized.\par 
\tab Upon manifestation in the Material Realm, daemons, elementals, and certain types of undead go through a Period of Instability. Unstable creatures must test for Instability by rollin
g 1d6 against the following chart at the end of the tenth round after their manifestation, and at the end of every tenth round thereafter. They must continue testing for Instability until they disappear, or become Stable, as indicated on the chart.\par 
\tab Unstable creatures must also test for Instability under the following conditions:\par 
\tab 1. At the end of a round when reduced to {hal}f their Wounds Score.\par 
\tab 2. At the end of a round when failing a WP test to resist a {magick} effect.\par 
\par 
\pard \qc {\ul Instability Chart}\par 
\pard \qj {\par 
}\tab Roll 1d6 at the end of every 10th round for each creature subject to Instability.\par 
\tab 1: The creature is suddenly sucked out of the Material Realm back into the Void. The creature immediately disappears.\par 
\tab 2: A sharp ebb in the flow of aethyrial energy severs the creature\rquote s link with the Chaos Realm. The creature becomes insubstantial, and cannot cause physical damage in combat, nor cast spells or cause {magick}al effects in the Material Realm. 
The creature is no longer affected by physical attacks or {magick}al effects in the Material Realm. The creature still causes Fear and other psychological effects as normal. The creature disappears in 1d6 rounds.\par 
\tab 3: A gradual ebb in the flow of aethyrial energy weakens the creature\rquote s material form for 1d6 rounds. 
All characteristics are reduced by -20 except Movement, Strength, and Toughness, which are reduced by -2, and Attacks, which are reduced to 1. The creature is incapable of casting spells or causing {magick}al effects. The creature still causes F
ear and other psychological effects as normal.\par 
\tab 4: A gradual increase in the flow of aethyrial energy strengthens the creature\rquote s material form for 1d6 rounds. 
All characteristics are increased by 20 except Movement, Strength, and Toughness, which are reduced by 2, and Attacks, which are increased by 1.\par 
\tab 5 or 6: The flow of energy from the Chaos Realm becomes secure and reliable. The creature is Stable, and need make no further tests for Instability for the duration of its stay in the Material Realm. 
(Summoned beings return to the Chaos Realm when the summoning ritual effect en{ds.)}\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 {\tab }GM Note: The Northern and Southern Chaos Wastes are {areas} where the Material Realm and the Chaos Realm have interpenetrated as a result of the collapse of the Old Slann Warp Gates. For this reason, daemons and other {
magick}al beings may exist normally there, and are not subject to Instability in these regions.\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s4\qj \b\f16 Natural {Magick}al Abilities}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Certain creatures have {magick}al abilities. For example, the basilisk\rquote s gaze can turn a victim to stone, unicorns are immune to basic magick spells, and certain fimir have the ability to generate a {magick}al fog. 
These {magick}al abilities have more in common with divine {magick}s than with sorceries, and are governed by the rules for divine {magick}. (See {\ul Divine }{\ul Magick} for details.)\par 
\pard \qj \tab Other creatures, particularly Creatures of Chaos, may have extraordinary abilities that may be regarded as natural or {magick}al. For example, is a troll\rquote s regeneration ability {magick}al? Is a doppleganger or a werecreature{'}
s shapeshifting ability {magick}al? Is a Chaos mutant\rquote s illusory appearance {magick}al? As a rule, assume that, unless otherwise specifically stated, an extraordinary ability is natural, and not {magick}
al, in the sense that the ability is a natural feature of the creature\rquote s peculiar form, not an active {magick}al effect like a spell. Gamemasters may, of course, make specific rulings in their campaigns according to their own tastes.\par 
\pard\plain \s5\qj \f16\fs20 \tab GM Note: Determining whether an ability is {magick}al or not has several practical consequences:\par 
\tab 1. {Magick}al abilities may be detectable by the Sense {Magick} skill and{ }{\i detect }{\i magick} spell.\par 
\tab 2. {Magick}al abilities might at least theoretically be affected by conditions, spells, or artifacts which affect {magick}al phenomena.{ }For example, is a troll\rquote s ability to regenerate negated in an area where {magick} is not possible?\par 
{\tab }We recommend that most exceptional abilities be considered natural, albeit marvelously natural, rather than {magick}al, in order to avoid controversies.\par 
}