{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f14\fnil Bookman;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}
{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f33\fnil Avant Garde;}{\f34\fnil New Century Schlbk;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f22104\fnil Code;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext243 footer;}{\qj \f16\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 
Normal;}{\s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext1 Character Profile;}{\s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext2 Chapter Heading;}{\s3\qj \b\f16 
\sbasedon0\snext3 Section Heading;}{\s4\qj \f16 \sbasedon0\snext4 Subsection Heading;}}{\info}\widowctrl\ftnbj\pgnstart0\makebackup\fracwidth {\*\nextfile perv.gov:Staging Magick}\sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere {\footer \pard\plain 
\s243\qj\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640 \f16\fs20 {Realms of Sorcery\tab Undead\tab Page }{\chpgn }\par 
}\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {\v {\tc\tcl1\pard\plain \s2\qc \b\f16\fs36 {Undead}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard \qj \tab \ldblquote It is difficult to account for the instinctive, violent horror the living have for the touch of the unquiet dead.{ }
Like spiders, slugs, and cockroaches, the undead produce most desperate aversions despite the fact that, in the cosmic scheme of things, they typically present a fairly feeble menace to a healthy adult.{ }
Poets and priests suggest that it is the reaching of the hand from beyond the grave, beckoning the living to death, that creates this unreasoning terror.{ }
In any case, it must be taken as axiomatic: feeble though their real menace may be, the psychological impact of the threat of contact with the undead is the essential tactical and strategic fundament of battlefield necromantic {magick}.\rdblquote \par 
\pard \qj \tab Klara Sch\'9an, Lecturer in Necromancy, Zauberkollegium Altdorf\par 
\par 
\tab Normally the spirit is separated from the body at death.{ }After a short period of disorientation and mourning, the spirit departs this plane, for {either }the {V}oid or for a shadowrealm, according to the deceased\rquote s cult beliefs.{ }
The body remains on this plane to decay into its component elements and to rejoin once again the earthly cycle of life and death.\par 
\tab Sometimes, however, the spirit remains trapped on this plane because of unfinished business, or a desire to protect tomb and possessions, or a tragic or traumatic death.{ }Known as {\ldblquote }ghosts{\rdblquote } or {\ldblquote }haunts{\rdblquote }
, these supernatural disembodied spirits are encountered throughout Warhammer World.\par 
\tab More commonly the undead faced by adventurers are the handiwork of necromantic {magick}.{ }The sorcerous arts of the necromancer are dedicated to interrupting the normal process of death.{ }
Necromancers can bind spirits of the departed into remains of the dead, creating the animated dead as their unliving servants.{ }They can restrain disembodied spirits upon this plane to serve as aethyrial servants and guardians.{ }
They can transform their own bodies into immortal undead creatures, or free their own spirits to possess and command the bodies of others.\par 
\tab The undead described here are those created by necromancy.{ }Unlike undead summoned from the dreamworld of Khaine, the god of Undeath, necromantic undead are not subject to Instability.{ }
The divine undead are substantial manifestations of spirit beings from a shadowrealm, more akin to daemons than to the material and aethyrial undead of necromancy.{ }Neither do necromantic undead require controllers, as do Khaine\rquote 
s undead, nor can control of them be wrested away from a controller by spells.{ }Necromantic undead are solely under the control of the necromancer that created them.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 Special Rules for Necromantic Undead}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 The Spirit at Death\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Upon the death of a Warhammer character or creature, the spirit remains in the Aethyrial Realm within 4 yards of the bodily remains for a number of turns equal to the WP score that the deceased being had in life (i.e.
, the spirit remains for WP turns, or minutes).{ }At the end of this time the spirit departs for the Void, never to return.{ }The spirit goes either to a shadowrealm, as determined by the creature's cult beliefs, or becomes a soul lost in the Void.{ }
The spirits of animals and many monsters go to the shadowrealm of the Earth Mother.{ }The spirits of Chaos creatures go to various Chaos shadowrealms.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Sense Life\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Many undead do not perceive the world as do living things.{ }They perceive the world directly through their spirits.{ }As such, many undead have the Sense Life skill as a natural ability.{ }
These undead can detect the presence of living beings, even through solid stone several feet thick, though stone and other dense materials over a yard thick apparently block or confuse this sense.{ }The range of this sense is typically six yards.{ }
Scholars theorize that this ability is a consequence of the separation of the spirit from the body at death, giving the spirit a clearer perception of the aethyrial world than possible while encumbered by the senses of a living body.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Animated Remains}}}\par 
\pard\plain \qj\li720 \f16\fs20 Lesser and Greater Skeletons\par 
Animated Corpses\par 
Zombies\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Skeletons\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Skeletons created by necromancy are fleshless remains of humanoids animated by {magick}ally-bound spirits.{ }
Skeletons are more mobile and agile because of their slight structure, but that are also relatively weak and delicate.{ }Skeletons created by the {\i animate lesser skeleton}{ r}itual (see page ??) are an
imated only for brief periods, since the spirit is bound to the remains only temporarily.{ }Since their spirits are bound to their remains indefinitely, greater skeletons remain animated for much longer periods.{ Otherwise}
, lesser and greater skeletons are identical in profile and abilities.\par 
\tab Special Rules:{ }Skeletons sense life at a range of six yards.{ }Skeletons are immune to psychology rules, and cannot be forced to leave combat.{ }They cause fear in living creatures.{ }A creature wounded by a skeleton has
 a 35% chance of contracting infected wounds (see {\ul WFRP}, page 83).\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 \tab Skeleton (basic profile)\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 25\tab 15\tab 2\tab 2\tab 5\tab 40\tab 1\tab 40\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab -\tab 3\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Animated Corpses\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Animated Corpses created by necromancy are the fleshy remains of humanoids animated by {magick}ally{ }bound spirits.{ }Animated corpses are slow and clumsy, but stronger and more durable than skeletons.{ }
Animated Corpses created by the {\i animate corpse}{ }ritual (see page ??) and the {\i raise dead}{ }spell (see page ??) are animated 
only for brief periods, though similar animated corpses preserved by lost Pharonic necromantic arts have remained animated in ancient tombs for much longer periods.\par 
\tab Special Rules:{ }Animated Corpses sense life at a range of six yards.{ }Animated corpses are immune to psychology rules, and cannot be forced to leave combat.{ }They cause fear in living creatures.{ }
A creature wounded by an animated corpse has a 50% chance of contracting infected wounds (see {\ul WFRP}, page 83).\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 \tab Animated Corpse (basic profile)\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 2\tab 20\tab 0\tab 3\tab 3\tab 9\tab 20\tab 1\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab 10\tab -\tab 3\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Zombie\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Zombies created by necromancy are, like animated corpses, the fleshy remains of humanoids animated by {magick}ally-bound spirits, but a zombie\rquote s animating spirit is permanently bound to the deceased\rquote 
s remains, and has a limited self-awareness, permitting the zombie to use some of the instincts, skills, and abilities the spirit had in life.\par 
\tab Unlike skeletons and animated corpses, zombies are capable of long service if properly cared for.{ }A Zombie tends to deteriorate from decomposition and wear according to its environment and level of activity.{ }
If not subjected to regular use, and protected from the elements, a zombie\rquote s body may function acceptably for several decades.{ }If used for hard labor, or exposed to rough treatment or combat, the body may last no more than a few weeks.\par 
\tab A zombie behaves like a sleep-walking or hypnotized individual.{ }It follows its master\rquote s commands, but ignores other speakers and is only dimly aware of events in its environment.{ }
It will not, for instance, notice the threat of an attacking weapon until it is struck, and then only shambles slowly away from an attacker.\par 
\tab A zombie has access to only a fragment of the knowledge and skills it had in life.{ }A zombie can follow simple directions at its master\rquote s request, but cannot answer its master\rquote 
s questions, nor can it perform even the simplest feats of reasoning.\par 
\tab A zombie is capable of vigorous activity for no more than 3d6+9 rounds at a time, after which it must rest for about an hour to restore its aethyrial energy.{ }It is capable of moderate exercise (e.g.
, walking, light labor) for periods up to one hour.\par 
\tab A zombie may not be slain without {magick}ally severing the body\rquote s link with its spirit.{ }Even if chopped up into tiny bits, a zombie\rquote s spirit remains linked to those bits, and may continue to animate the tiny bits.{ }
Scattering the fragments of a dismembered zombie will eventually disassociate the spirit from the remote parts, while the spirit becomes associated with a particular fragment, continuing to animate that part even in the absence of the rest of the body.{ }
For example, the spirit typically remains associated with the heart or head of the zombie, though accounts of severed but animated zombie hands are not unusual.{ }
Even cremation reducing bodily remains to ash does not release the bound spirit from the ash.{ }As such, reducing Wound points to zero for a zombie does not represent killing or destroying it, but represents physically damaging the struct
ure enough that it no longer presents a threat.\par 
\tab Special Rules:{ }Zombies sense life at a range of six yards.{ }Zombies may be forced to leave combat.{ }When they lose a round of combat, they must pass a Leadership test to stand and fight; if the test fails, they flee.{ }
(If the Zombie's creator is present, test vs. the creator's Leadership, not the zombie's.){ }Zombies cause fear in living creatures.{ }A creature wounded by a Zombie has a chance of contracting a disease (see {\ul WFRP}, page 83). Roll 1d6:\par 
\tab 1-3:{ }infected wounds\par 
\tab 4: Tomb Rot\par 
\tab 5-6: no disease\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 \tab Zombie (basic profile)\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 25\tab 15\tab 3\tab 3\tab 10\tab 30\tab 1\tab 30\tab 20\tab 20\tab 20\tab 20\tab -\tab 3\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Since Zombies vary in abilities according to the spirit animating them, the GM may design the zombie profile as he chooses. The profile given here is for an average specimen; other profiles may be far better or far worse.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Golems}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Golems are created by sophisticated spirit-binding and animation rituals, producing an undead being with many of the abilities of a living being.{ }
The flesh is not living, but otherwise the mind and body of a golem are linked in much the same way as in a living creature.\par 
\tab A Lesser Golem is created by linking a spirit to a body other than the one the spirit inhabited in life.{ }The advantage is that the body\rquote s original spirit need not be sought and summoned, a difficult, expensive, and often-fruitless labor.{ }
The disadvantage is that the spirit may or may not be a good match for the body\rquote s abilities; consequently, Lesser Golems are a g
ood deal less able than either the original body or spirit, and mental disorders caused by the shock of mismatched body and spirit are common and abundant.{ }(The Frankenstein monster is a typical example of a Lesser Golem.)\par 
\tab In a Greater Golem a spirit is linked with its original body.{ }Under the right circumstances, the abilities and skills of a Greater Golem may be almost indistinguishable from the being as it was in life.{ }
Unfortunately, however, Greater Golems are also subject to considerable mental stress:{ }first, from the shock of reawakening, and then from the prospect of discovering oneself an undead being.{ }
Many personalities do not weather this shock well at all, and suffer from gross distortions of personality, often limiting mental and physical capacities.{ }Other personalities{ (}unhappily, usually the most cold-blooded and unprincipled{)}
 adapt easily to undeath, and may in fact be pleased and grateful for their form of limited immortality.{ }(Liches and vampires are exceptionally fine examples of the products of rituals similar to the Greater Golem ritual.)\par 
\tab The better the condition of the fleshly remains, the more satisfactory the recovery of the original being\rquote s physical abilities, and, typically, the less stress on the psyche of the revenant.{ }
However, Greater Golems may be achieved with no more than a skeleton{,} or even a fragment of skeleton, and though such a golem\rquote s physical abilities are quite limited, they may still retain their memories and mental abilities.{ }
Again, few personalities can wi
thstand the shock of awakening after several centuries and discovering themselves to be a bag of bones in a sack, but some extraordinary individuals (most commonly sorcerors or other spellcasters) have the breadth of mind to adapt to \ldblquote life
\rdblquote  as a skull in the parlor of a necromancer.\par 
\tab Like a zombie, a golem is capable of vigorous activity for no more than 3d6+9 rounds at a time, after which it must rest for about an hour to restore its aethyrial energy.{ }It is capable of moderate exercise (e.g., walking, light
 labor) for periods up to one hour.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Lesser Golems}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab These are similar in abilities to a zombie, except they often have superior WS and BS, a Strength and Toughness of 4 ({magick}ally enhanced as the golem draws on its spirit for power), and 10-15 Wounds.{ }
They follow their master\rquote s commands like a zombie, but exercise some initiative in accomplishing tasks.{ }For instance, they instinctively defend themselves from harm (i.e.
, parry attacks, and maneuver for advantage in combat), and learn from experience.{ }They also instinctively fear injury, and as such may choose to withdraw against greater odds, unlike most undead.{ }
However, they do not have higher mental functions, communicate very crudely, if at all, and typically suffer from dementia and, when threatened or terrified, from catatonia (see {\ul WFRP}, p. 84).{ }
As such, they may make satisfactory servants, slaves, or laborers for certain simple tasks, but are less effective as guards or troops.\par 
\tab Special Rules:{ }Lesser Golems sense life at a range of six yards.{ }Lesser Golems may be forced to leave combat.{ }When they lose a round of combat, they must pass a Leadership test to stand and fight; if the test fails, they flee.{ }(If the Lesser
 Golem\rquote s creator is present, test vs. the creator\rquote s Leadership, not the golem\rquote s.){ }Golems cause fear in living creatures.{ }A creature wounded by a Golem has a chance of contracting a disease (see {\ul WFRP}, page 83). Roll 1d6:
\par 
\tab 1-3:{ }infected wounds\par 
\tab 4: Tomb Rot\par 
\tab 5-6: no disease\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 \tab Lesser Golem (basic profile)\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 35\tab 25\tab 4\tab 4\tab 15\tab 30\tab 1\tab 30\tab 20\tab 20\tab 20\tab 20\tab -\tab 3\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab 
Since Lesser Golems vary in abilities according to the body and the spirit animating it, the GM may design the profile as he chooses. The profile given here is for an average specimen; other profiles may be far better or far worse. Necromancers usually se
lect bodies with superior physical qualities, so these tend to be better than the human average, but the mental abilities tend to be low average or worse.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Greater Golems}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab The spirit is self-aware and in many ways is similar to the being it was in life.{ }However, it is mentally in the thrall of the necromancer, and lacks some of the abilities of living beings (it cannot cast {magick}
, it cannot resist {magick}al effects, etc.).{ }It is also limited to brief periods of activity, since its actions are sustained {magick}ally, and it is typically terribly deranged by the experience of being a self-aware undead (i.e.
, loaded with colorful mental disorders).{ }GM: Greater Golems may be assigned 1-3 of the following menta
l disorders at your discretion: Agoraphobia, Alignment Change, Amnesia, Animosity, Catatonia, Claustrophobia, Dementia, Depression, Scotophobia, Frenzy, Hatred, Heroic Idiocy, Introversion, Kleptomania, Mania, Manic Depressive, Megalomania, Pathological Ly
ing, Phobia, Schizophrenia. (See {\ul WFRP}, pp. 83-86, for details of Mental Disorders.)\par 
\tab For centuries necromancers have sought to bring back to life individuals with extraordinary skills and intellect, often in hopes of recovering those lost skills and intell
ect as enslaved resources, but occasionally as an abstract exercise or noble inquiry into the mysteries of the past.{ }
Greater golems thus may often make exceptional skilled slaves or guards, and may ironically be of greater intellect and skill than their masters who reanimated them.\par 
\tab Special Rules:{ }Greater golems sense life at a range of six yards.{ }Greater Golems cause Fear in living creatures.{ }A creature wounded by a greater golem has a chance of contracting a disease (see {\ul WFRP}, page 83). Roll 1d6:\par 
\tab 1-3:{ }infected wounds\par 
\tab 4: Tomb Rot\par 
\tab 5-6: no disease\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 \tab Greater Golem (basic profile)\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 40\tab 30\tab 3\tab 3\tab 14\tab 30\tab 1\tab 40\tab 40\tab 40\tab 40\tab 40\tab -\tab 4\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\tab Greater Golems vary according to the individual person the necromancer seeks to revive: that is, a necromancer who wants an engineer will get the best (dead) one he can find.{ }
The profile given here is for an average specimen; other profiles will vary as much would profiles for player and non-player characters.{ }Necromancers usually select for 
superior mental and physical qualities, so these tend to be better than the human average.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Liches and Vampires}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab As {\ul WFRP}. See {\i lichelife}{ }ritual, Necro{mantic} 4{th}.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Mummies}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab As {\ul WFRP}. See {\i c}{\i reate }{\i g}{\i reater }{\i g}{\i olem} ritual, Necro{mantic} 4{th}.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Necromantic Aethyrial Undead}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj\li720 \f16\fs20 Ghost\par 
Haunt\par 
Spectre\par 
Wight\par 
Wraith\par 
\pard \qj \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Ghosts, Haunts, and Spectres\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Ghosts are the disembodied spirits of dead creatures trapped on this plane because they have not been properly laid to rest, because they have left important unfinished business, or because they die
d unexpectedly or in tragic circumstances.{ }A ghost\rquote s spirit is bound to remain on this plane until the source of distress is removed (e.g.
, until its remains are decently buried, or its unfinished business is attended to, or its murder is avenged).{ }When satisfied, the spirit departs naturally for the void. Spectres are a particularly malevolent and powerful type of ghost.\par 
\tab A haunt is created when a spirit is summoned with the Capture Humanoid spirit ritual, then bound to remain temporarily at a necromancer\rquote s bidding.{ }
A haunt is similar in nature to a ghost, but, unlike a ghost, a haunt remains only until the summoning ritual effect expires.{ }A greater haunt, like a ghost, is bound to the Material Realm indefinitely.\par 
\tab Ghosts, haunts, and spectres manifest on this plane in a variety of guises.{ }Some appear as they might have in life, and appear to be fully material until touched.{ }Others are hideously distorted or gruesome in aspect (e.g.
, horribly mangle, or carrying its own severed head under an arm).{ }Some appear only as noises or disembodied voices, moaning or screaming, rattling chains or making thumping noises, or speaking to plead for aid or warn against danger.\par 
\tab Some ghosts are malevolent, spitefully attacking the living without provocation; some are passive and unresponsive to the living; others are kind and protective.{ }
Spectres and haunts are always malevolent, attacking any being which come within range.{ }The range of a ghost, spectre, or haunt varies according to the location and the spirit, but is typically about 5 yards from the location where it is bound.\par 
\tab Special Rules:{ }Ghosts, haunts, and spectres sense life at a range of six yards.{ }Ghosts, haunts, and spectres may pass through solid objects, such as wall, without penalty, and may become visible or invisible at will.{ }
Ghosts, haunts, and spectres cannot be forced to leave combat.{ }Ghosts, haunts, and spectres cannot be wounded by non-{magick}al weapons and cannot cause damage themselves.{ }\par 
\tab The touch of a ghost or haunt causes Fear.{ }When a ghost or haunt \ldblquote strikes\rdblquote  an opponent, the victim must make a Cool test at a -10 penalty, or flee from the ghost or haunt.\par 
\tab The touch of a spectre causes Fear or Terror at the spectre\rquote s option.{ }In addition, when a spectre \ldblquote strikes\rdblquote  an opponent, the victim must make a WP test or be paralyzed for 2d6 turns (minutes).{ }
Paralysis attacks even affect creatures which are immune to non-{magick}al weapons.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 \tab Ghost or Haunt (basic profile)\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 25\tab 0\tab 0\tab 4\tab 10\tab 50\tab 1\tab -\tab 20\tab 20\tab 20\tab 60\tab -\tab 3\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 \tab Spectre (basic profile)\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 40\tab 0\tab 0\tab 4\tab 23\tab 60\tab 4\tab -\tab 20\tab 20\tab 20\tab 60\tab -\tab 3\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {\fs28 Wight\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab Wights are disembodied spirits bound to their remains on the Material Plane, but not animating those remains.{ }
These aethyrial undead are created by necromantic rituals, typically as guardians over the burial-wealth of deceased kings, nobles, and wizards.{ }They may also be created by necromancers as guardians of the necromancer's quarters and possessions.\par 
\tab In appearance, wights typically manifest as the deceased at the moment of death, and may be in fine robes, battle armor, or the garments of old age and the sick bed.{ }
The most fearsome in aspect, and the most prized by necromancers as guardians, are proud rulers and warriors who died in battle.\par 
\tab Special Rules:{ }Wights sense life at a range of 10 yards.{ }Wights may pass through solid objects, such as walls, without penalty, and may become visible or invisible at will.{ }Wights cannot be forced to leave combat.{ }
Wights cannot be wounded by non-{magick}al weapons and cannot cause damage themselves.\par 
\tab Wights attack any living thing that passes within 1d10+10 yards of its remains.{ }The actual range of a wight varies according to the personality and nature of the deceased\rquote s original spirit.{ }
Wights created from deceased sorcerors, divine spellcasters, or {magick}al humanoids may have much greater ranges at the GM's discretion.\par 
\tab The touch of a wight causes Fear.{ }In combat, they do not cause Wound damage, but deduct 1 point from the victim\rquote s Strength and add 1 point to their own Strength and 1d10 to their MP total.{ }The wight\rquote 
s Strength may be increased to a maximum of 6 in this fashion; there is no limit to the increase of it MP.{ }A victim reduced to zero Strength is slain.{ }These attacks are {magick}
al in nature, and may therefore affect creatures not affected by normal weapons; however, wights cannot cause Wounds upon other Aethyrial creatures, and may only cause normal wounds on undead and daemons.\par 
\tab Wights have the {magick}al ability to affect living creatures within 10 yards as the spell {\i hypnotic command} (Illusion 2, page ??).{ }They must spend MP to cause this effect.{ }The range for the use of this ability is 10 yards.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 \tab Wight (basic profile)\par 
\pard\plain \s1\qj\tx720\tx1260\tx1800\tx2340\tx2700\tqc\tx3240\tqc\tx3780\tqc\tx4140\tx4500\tx5220\tx5760\tx6300\tx6840\tx7380\tx7920 \f16\fs20 \tab M\tab WS\tab BS\tab S\tab T\tab W\tab I\tab A\tab Dex\tab Ld\tab Int\tab Cl\tab WP\tab Fel\tab MP\par 
\tab 4\tab 50\tab 0\tab 4\tab 4\tab 17\tab 30\tab 1\tab -\tab 30\tab 30\tab 30\tab 60\tab -\tab 10\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {\v {\tc\tcl2\pard\plain \s3\qj \b\f16 {Other Undead Entities}}}{\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Marshlight\par 
}\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab See {\ul WFRP}, page 252.{ }References in folklore and song refer to marshlights as departed Wood Elven ancestral spirits which guard forests from trespassers. \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Wraith}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab See {\ul WFRP}, page 253.{ }Wraiths are aethyrial spirits of dead Khaine worshippers returned to the Material Realm by Khaine to serve him in his war against the followers of Morr. \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Carrion}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab See {\ul WFRP}, page 248.{ }Carrion are unique daemon-like undead flying creatures of the shadowrealm of the Death God Khaine, given by Khaine to favored servants as mounts.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Ghouls}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab See {\ul WFRP}, page 248.{ }Ghouls are living servants of the Death God Khaine who have surrendered themselves voluntarily to possession by morbid otherworldly spirits from Khaine\rquote s shadowrealm whose unho
ly mission is to ritually desecrate the graves and remains of the righteous dead protected by the god Morr.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s4\qj \f16 {Vampires}\par 
\pard\plain \qj \f16\fs20 \tab See {\ul WFRP}, page 250.{ }Vampires are believed to be the products of a secret variant of the {\i lichelife} ritual, probably of 2nd Millenium Dark Elven origin.{ }
These quasi-immortal beings are said to live in secret among the various cultures of the Old World, sometimes in small secret societies, sometimes as isolated hermits.\par 
}